Title: Public Improvements 2026: Ranshaw Way
Published: 2026-03-25 15:04:12
Video ID: -aXmCQrk4EY

Now, we're just going to give folks just another couple of minutes to to jump in here. Um, but we are here at the online project open house uh to talk about the uh sixth and final phase of Ranch Hall Way, and we'll just get started here in just a couple minutes. All right, well, we're going to jump into this. Uh first, welcome and hello. I'm Nick Bergus. I'm the community relations director for the city of North Liberty. Uh this construction season, which is going to get underway shortly, particularly if we keep having nice weather like this, um and is going to last until it snows in late fall. Um we're going to have improvements to Forevergreen Road and Jasper, next phase of Centennial Park development with a splash pad, and we're continuing to finalize designs for Ranch Hall Way, and Cherry Street firehouse. So, we're going to We've been Yesterday, we talked about uh Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue. Today, we're going to talk about the final phase of Ranch Hall Way, which is in design. Uh we And tomorrow we're talking about Centennial Park in the community center as well. And then on Thursday we're talking about the Cherry Street fire house. There are some other projects in the area that we're not going to get into that aren't being led by North Liberty. For example, the Penn Street interchange, which is being which is a DOT project, and the city of Coralville, which is extending Evergreen Road to the east from 12th Avenue and from the west. Um which is North Liberty Road and First Avenue. Uh you can find overviews of our projects at northlibertyiowa.org/projects. And you can also subscribe to updates including closure warnings at northlibertyiowa.org/subscribe. And you can always email me at nburgess@northlibertyiowa.org. And all that contact information will be on a slide at the end. As we go through this, if you have questions, go ahead and type them in the Q&A box and we'll answer those when we get to the end. Uh so let's do some quick introductions with the staff that are on the the call. Let's start with city staff and then we'll move over to the Shive team. Michael, you want to go first? Yeah, thanks Nick. My name is Michael Pentecost. I'm the city of North Liberty street superintendent. Thank you. Then we'll go Eric, Michael, and Emily. Yeah, my name is Eric Montchal with Shive Hattery. I am the lead designer, civil designer for the Ranchaway project. I'm Mike Yanchar with Shive Hattery. Civil engineer with Shive Civil engineer with Shive and then project manager for the Ranchaway project. And I'm Emily Shive. I'm also with Shive Hattery and I've been helping out with the design for this project. Oh, perfect. Thank you so much. So let's jump into this. This is a right now you what you're seeing is an overview of the projects we're talking about and where those are all located. Obviously, Ranch Road is here is pretty central. So, Eric, do you want to talk a little bit about sort of what where we've been at and then sort of what we're going? >> We can real quick before I go to that slide. Um So, last year, so 965, this whole development along here has been kind of master planned. It started back I believe in 1999. So, we've gone through several phases. Um just recently phase five, which is in this area, was completed. And this is phase six, which we're talking about today and is currently in design. Um so, as you can see we're right down here. I'm going to this next slide, we've kind of rotated ourselves. Um so, north is now pointing to the right side of the screen. Um and then the project is um from Evergreen Road to Hawkeye Drive here. Um that's that's pretty much the limits of our project that's going to be constructed. As I mentioned, we're in design. We're looking at sending this out to bid in the winter. A spring 2027 construction would start. We anticipate this running through 2028. Um So, a few things that this project will do and help with 965 or Ranch Road is that we're going to take the two-lane section, three-lane section through here and upgrade it to a four-lane with two lanes in each direction as shown in this typical section. Um Some of this area will need to be widen. Some of it at the intersections already have that widening completed. So, it's not Essentially, it's not a full reconstruction. We're going to utilize pavement that's there where we can, um but there are areas that will have to um completely reconstruct. Um and knowing that, you know, that that will um lead into some lane closures and essentially uh an area we're going to have to do a full full closure on this area. Um we believe here, again, we're in we're still in design. Um we're still trying to bet out the best uh traffic control, um but we are leaning towards a uh full closure similar to what was done in phase five. Um again, this just saves on time. They can get the work done quicker. It's also safer for uh construction workers out there without the traffic driving by and for the public that there's not um drop-offs or anything that we have to manage um or for for them to uh have to uh traverse. And then, again, um cost. Uh it's a saves on cost. Um so, to highlight a couple of the the improvements, um starting with we're going to do some signal upgrades. Uh signal upgrade here at Evergreen Road as we change the lane configuration um to that four-lane. Signal upgrade upgrade here at Ashley as we prepare for the extension of future roads into um potential developments. And then, we're going to install signal at Sarah Court and really improve this whole intersection uh with landscape treatment and uh again, prepare for the future road for um future development. Additionally, on the west side or on the top of the screen here, we are going to install a 10-ft wide trail, um continuing that trail network from phase five all the way down and connecting into Evergreen Road. On the east side or the bottom of the the screen here, we're going to do it 8-ft wide sidewalk um connecting again from the phase five project and extending it all the way down to Forevergreen Road and kind of complete that section of trail um between where phase five stopped and where uh Forevergreen Road now has, you know, the trail where the hospital wasn't built. Uh another thing we want to know, there are there will be some utility upgrades. Um we are doing some storm sewer through here. Uh there will be a water main connection um starting somewhere at Hawkeye Drive down to Forevergreen Road. Um it's a chance to help kind of pro provide another looped system or another loop in the system. Um this helps with resiliency and uh you know, having that water main to uh connect two major points. Um right now it does not connect through here, so uh that's another improvement we're we're adding in this project. Um as you can see here, we have kind of this loop here and uh noted a pedestrian underpass. Um similar to phase five again, we want to provide an access for people to um get under the roadway safely and uh a pedestrian underpass, which I will show a rendering here, um will be constructed under here. We are taking that underpass as well and bringing it down to Jordan Street. Um the the sidewalk will continue along the uh the pond here and connect into Jordan Street uh eventually uh connect into the sidewalk network that's around in this area. Um so we were adding a a connection here, which um you know, just improve that that walkability around uh North Liberty. Uh one of the last things I want to mention is we are putting in some bio cells and some water quality items here uh just to help with the storm water and just to be you know, good stewards of the land and collecting that water and filtering it out. And so there'll be a a few bio cells installed along here to um to meet that goal. Uh and then I think that's that's what I covered on all the upgrades so I wanted to show I could just If I could yeah, I could just jump in. So I just you mentioned that part of this will require a full closure. Uh we don't expect that to be the full time, right? That will be limited in duration just just to be clear and and that is in part to do that underpass as well some of those other works safely. Um we're still working through um some of the other some of the elements of what that'll look like as you said some traffic control what do the detours look like how long are they? Um we would expect some of those detour routes to look very similar to what we did uh for the last phase. So talking about Jones Boulevard and Front Street being being sort of the the main places we're diverting traffic to for those. Right. Okay. Yeah, correct. >> And so and and also I think I just it's important to talk a little bit about um this is part of this is right building for what what's here now but also thinking for it. So right, there's nothing that's a cornfield on the on the west side right now. Not a lot to walk to, right? But uh knowing that just like we're getting ready for streets to be able to connect to Ranch Hallway, we're also making sure that it's it's ready for when people when when development does happen there that people can walk to it and ride their bike. All right. Speaking of riding your bike and walking. Yes. Um yes, thank you Nick for clarifying on those detours. Uh so, this is the um I don't know, shining star. I think this will kind of show what it what our plan is. Uh I'm not a landscape architect. Unfortunately, our landscape couldn't architect couldn't attend today, but I will kind of briefly show. So, this is the tunnel. This is on the west side and we're looking to the east. Um as you can see, here's the pond up here. Uh we'll have a tunnel um similar design to phase five. Um but we wanted to have a different feel, and so we're adding some different graphics. It's kind of more of a prairie feel here. Um so, we'll have some prairie grass graphics on the side. Um we'll have some retaining walls just to get up and around and get back in there. Um and again, we'll um treat this all and make this space uh not only ADA accessible, but just a fun uh enjoyable path uh to continue that design through um Ranch Alloway. It's great. So, all in all, it's uh so so again, you started working on design uh we talked about this back February of last year. Um and design won't be complete until later in this fall. So, about 18 months worth of design work. Does that sound about right, Eric? Yeah, and um and that's just design work. Um I mean, as you mentioned, planning went into this, and it's continuing to be thought about and planned and discussed um even prior to to actually officially starting design about a little over a year ago at least. Right. But otherwise, it it should look a lot like the most recent section of of Ranshaw. Uh with that, I would certainly open it to if there any questions from the folks in the audience or if staff have anything else that that that they think is a good thing to add here just a flag. Eric Eric had he mentioned about the duration of the project, the time frame. 27 would spill into 28. I think it's worth noting that major completion would probably be expected in the 27 time frame, but there's going to be restoration work, loosen work, but we wouldn't anticipate that the 28 season to affect traffic majorly. There might be more routine um uh closures or delays or or maybe moving detour lanes around, but that you know, that we're going to feel that impact the 27 time frame. 28 will be just kind of cleaning everything up and making it look pretty and nice. Yeah. Thank you, Michael. Well, if there aren't any questions, if you can switch that last slide for me, Eric. Perfect. So, here's my contact information. Again, there are overviews at northlibertyiowa.org/projects about this project and other projects happening in in around North Liberty. My name is Dick Berges. My email address is right there n b e r g u s at northlibertyiowa.org. And there's my office phone number 319-626-5756. If you've got a question that occurs to you later, feel free to reach out to me. And if I don't have the answer handy, I will work to get it for you. Thank you so much for joining us today. We will be back tomorrow to talk about some improvements to the community center parking lot as well as the second phase of Centennial Park development, which is a splash pad and some additional features. Again, you can find information about all of North Liberty's public projects at northlibertyiowa.org/projects. Thank you all so much for joining us. Thank you. Thank you, everyone.