Title: North Liberty City Council Meeting on January 27, 2026
Published: 2026-01-28 14:49:38
Video ID: PNU0I6bk1-8

Good evening everyone. Tonight is Tuesday, January 27th, 2026. I'll call the North Liberty City Council meeting to order. Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> For here. Libel, >> here. >> Hark [snorts] >> here. >> Smith >> here. >> Way >> here. Thank you. Item three is approval of the agenda. There are no changes that I'm aware of. Can I have a motion for approval, please? >> So moved. >> Second by Park, seconded by Lold. Any questions? All in favor say I. [clears throat] I. >> Opposed. >> Our agenda is approved. Item four is our consent agenda. Anything on there to talk about? >> See none. Can I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Wasted. Seconded by Smith. Any questions? >> All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed. Consent agenda carries. Item five is public comment. And now it's time for anyone in the audience wishing to address council on an item that's not already labeled for public comment. Now is your time. Seeing no one rush to the podium, I'll close public comment and move to Josiah the engineers report, please. >> Uh thanks, mayor. One update uh for the council tonight. Excuse [clears throat] me. Um, so the the Interstate 380 and the Penn Street Bridge project we talked about a little bit last meeting. Um, since then the uh pre-construction meeting has been scheduled. So that'll be in the first week of February. So they're getting geared up to get going. Um, I've talked to the contractor. There's a couple big uh overarching goals that they have this season and I was going to pass those along. Um, first of all, there's going to be a couple night closures next week of the bridge. uh two nights 11 to 5 11 pm to 5:00 am they're setting beams for the new half of the bridge that they're getting started. So that's a kind of a big component of them getting going on the job. Uh the next big movement traffic-wise is late March they'll move southbound traffic on 380. They'll shift it over to the north side. So they'll shift the traffic over still two lanes on 380 but a shift. Um, all the ramps are currently open at Penn Street and they are going to remain open uh for quite a while. They're looking at closing uh the northbound off-ramp in July and then about two or three weeks later closing the southbound onramp. So both ramps on the south side of the bridge. Um, so as of right now, they're planning to have those remain open until about July, and then they'll both be closed, like the north side was closed last year uh for two or three months for reconstruction. Um, so that'll be similar. And then uh at the end of this year, 2026, that job they're supposed to be essentially complete. So that's the bridge, the interchange at Penn Street, all the lane widening on 380, and their Wright brothers bridge up in Cedar Rapids. But um so this this is their final season to get that all wrapped up. That's what they're looking to do. >> So that's all I have tonight, Mayor. >> That's awesome. Thanks for stepping out of the bounds there a little bit to provide that update. Do you guys have any questions for Josiah? [clears throat] Seeing none, Ryan, anything to report outside of budget stuff in a minute? >> No, I'm gonna hold all my [clears throat] comments for the the budget. >> Can't wait. >> Yeah, can't wait. >> Uh the only thing I have uh just a couple of things or one thing I did was um went to the Stone Soup Supper last night, hosted uh at Centennial Park and for benefit of the food pantry, but otherwise been kind of quiet here on this end. I'll turn it over to item nine, which is council reports. Are there any uh things to update our staff and council and the public on that you've been doing outside of city council meetings? >> Uh I have had a couple meetings uh with for the no about the nominating committee for the chair and co-chair and uh we will hopefully take care of all that tomorrow afternoon. And then uh I attended the EMA uh uh meeting last week. It was basically the budget hearing. So, we've set the budget uh for the uh upcoming fiscal year. Uh it's uh fairly flat other than um insurance and and u salary uh increases, but otherwise it's pretty flat. They're not anticipating any new programs. And then um we're going to set the bids for the new storage building actually uh next week for that meeting. >> Thank you. Anyone else? >> I attended the [clears throat and cough] excuse me, North Liberty lunch connections at Bulldogs and heard from Greater IC about the uh small business grants available to North Liberty businesses and met a new chiropractor in town named Dr. Easy is his name for short. Uh Dr. DY is starting a new practice here and was excited about the opportunity to to apply for the grant and hopefully hopefully he'll get that and it'll help him uh you know just move into North Liberty into his new spot. So that was that was fun and that's all I have. >> Thanks Paul. >> Uh for me Mayor sent attended the same uh lunchon with Paul uh great event. I did have a breakfast meeting with the just a member of the UI leadership team last week. It was a just an opportunity to exchange and continue to build relationships with the University of Iowa. So, that was that was a it was fun. It was effective and I look forward to the next opportunity. And then I would be remiss and I'm surprised that you missed it. But uh congratulations to the uh Liberty High School dance team uh on their way to the national championships down in Florida this this week. So all the dancers, coaches, [clears throat] parents, support staff that uh that are supporting that group, uh I know they are very excited and it's quite an honor to attend the national championship. So uh congratulations to them. That's it for me, mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Anything to All right, I'll move on to item 10 then. Ryan, this is our FY27 budget and I'll let you take it from here. Just move on to item A. >> Okay. >> Capital improvements plan. >> Thank you. Uh first of all, thanks everyone for our our discussion uh last week. Uh a real brief recap of that as we got through the operation side of the budget. Uh our team management team feels good about that and we appreciate the dialogue. Uh we invited a few of our management team members back this evening to talk more specifically about some of the larger uh capital projects essentially non-equipment type projects uh that may involve some borrowing uh or uh um significant sized uh public projects. So, what I would like to [clears throat] do uh with the capital projects, I'm just going to uh talk off the the CIP here, a shortened version of the CIP, and I'd just like to go down in order with the exception of the fire department. I think I'll wait to talk about that one last because it'll be then a nice segue into the local option sales tax discussion. So, from the community center standpoint, and we have uh Jenny Garner and Shelley Simpson here this evening, but uh we have a hand a couple of projects or four projects to be precise uh proposed. The first is uh uh replacement of some indoor pool filters. These are aging filters. And talking to Shelley today, we're hoping that uh they'll get to the fiscal year. Uh if not, we may have to to take action uh a little quicker than than FY uh 27. Uh but that that is the plan at this point and that would be funded uh with the help of the local option, excuse me, the help of hotel motel tax. The big one uh at the community center and one we've talked about for a couple years now or at least it's been on our radar is the remodel of the aquatic center locker rooms. These are some of the most used locker rooms in the facility. Uh they're pretty uh dingy, if I could say, and in need of some attention. uh they continue to give uh our maintenance folks uh um well our maintenance folks uh put have to put a lot of effort into maintaining those facilities and it's frankly time uh to upgrade those. It's a very expensive project uh approaching a million dollars. Uh but it would it would essentially be a remodel of both the men's and women's locker rooms there right next to the uh indoor pool. We do are we are calling for um $50,000 [clears throat] uh allocation for maintenance and right now we're we're looking at uh potentially replacement of of the curtains and the gymnasiums. Uh we we are a little skeptical of saying that will be the project for sure. uh simply because much like these pool filters, if something comes up, we want to have a little wiggle room to to prioritize that. The point is is really to get it in that community center project list so you can and and make sure we have funding for when these types of things come up. And that uh that model is in your packet. It's a commu it's called the community center capital uh capital [clears throat] projects model. And then lastly, this uh is a project that would um really rely on grant funding or fundraising. We received a small grant uh uh from a library group. Forgive me, Jenny, you can mention it when you come up here. I forget which group it is. Uh but uh to uh convert and upgrade uh some restrooms uh the restrooms at uh uh at the library. And that would also then uh install a an adult changing table which um is something that that would benefit the library. So [sighs and gasps] those are and again that's we're that's grant dependent. You're not seeing any city funds being proposed for that. Uh that would that would depend on on what outside sources of funding we could receive. So, those are the four projects within the community center uh facility that we're uh considering this year. And I guess uh [clears throat] we would uh offer an opportunity for questions uh and feedback from the group. >> Thank you, Jenny. >> Thanks, Jenny. >> And if there's no feedback, I can keep going. >> [clears throat] >> Let's keep rolling along. >> Okay, so let's again, like I mentioned, we're going to skip fire. We're going to jump down to parks [clears throat and cough] and Guy Goldsmith uh is ill this evening, but he has joined us uh hopefully from the comfort of his home. Uh he is on the on the team's meeting and uh is able to answer uh some questions if there are any. The first one on here is the park shop and we've talked an expansion of the park shop and we've talked a little bit about this around this dis and and we continue at at the staff level to evaluate what our options are. But the idea here is to uh add on to the existing park shop at the same time add on to our existing water department uh shop so that when we're ready to tear down that uh fire facility fire the current fire station we can relocate the fire department uh at these two at basically at the civic or at the uh public works campus along Front Street so that they can operate out of that area while the new building is being constructed. Now, these projects were actually both in the uh FY27 CIP last year. Uh if this is a feasible avenue to go and again, we're still trying to coordinate with Shy and talk a little bit internally on how this this would look. It's it's unfortunately it looks pretty simple when you're looking at a map and showing this needs to go here and this needs to go here, but uh there's some complications to it. So, we're working through those details. Uh, but ultimately we if the council is amendable to this concept and it works, we may be asking uh approval to move ahead even quicker than FY27. I [clears throat] know there's some questions on that one, so I'll come we'll come back to that. I'll just get through the rest of these projects. Uh the the next one on the list is is replacing the playground equipment uh at the uh community center uh playground which uh uh is a very um very popular uh playground within our community. This is uh uh just on the would be the north side of the uh community center. Uh there's a photo or an image of uh what Guy and his team are going to be proposing to the park board if this project is approved. Uh it's a significant investment of $255,000. [clears throat] Uh the majority of that would come from franchise fees while uh a small portion of that about 50,000 would come from the uh hotel motel tax. And then we have two trail projects uh uh uh proposed for this year. Uh the first is uh a trail segment on North Debuke Street. And I'm sure you're all familiar with Buck Moon Villas, the subdivision that's being constructed there now. As part of their development, they put in uh the trail uh uh along Deuke Street. This particular project would then uh bring that trail south to to get it fill the last gap there uh and connect it uh to the trail on Central Way. Uh it would cross uh I believe it crosses a railroad track if I'm not mistaken and also um uh it would uh uh come across the properties of two energy stations there. And then the final trail project is a big one and one we have some grant funding for. Uh about $450,000 in grant funding for this $800,000 project. Uh but it would it would bring the Forever Green Trail from the roundabout construction. So once that complete bringing it from the roundabout uh itself east all the way uh to the existing trail on Forever Green Road. So it would be a great tiein to what's there what is there now and will be there after this year and then a great segue into the Ranchaw way phase 6 project which happens next year uh 2027 uh it would be a a trail that connects Forever Green all uh all along uh to Ranchaw Way. So those are the park projects proposed in this year's CIP. >> Can you help us understand the needs that the parks department is facing and uh needing with this addition? >> Sure. And I a couple of you have toured uh the parks facility uh recently. Um uh this addition would be somewhere around 5,000 square feet plus or minus uh and uh would provide uh additional storage and workspace uh for the crews. If you go into their shop right now, uh you would see that it is they're using every single inch of it. And as their responsibilities continue to grow, uh, with additional trails, additional landscaping, uh, additional parks, uh, so does the need for that equipment and a place to store it. And Guy, if you're willing and able, if you have anything to add to that, uh, we'd appreciate hearing from you. >> Sure. Good evening, Mayor, City Council. I appreciate you meeting me via Teams tonight. Um, [clears throat] yes, the parts edition is something we've been looking forward to for quite a few years now. Um, of course you have to prioritize, but we're at that point now where um, we're kind of busting at the seams, if I might say, in our current shop. Um [clears throat] I I think uh in addition it would be great in maybe maybe doing some work to our existing shop to help uh make that a little more efficient as well might be another option. Um but like Ryan said we are [clears throat] um going through a bunch of options and where that layout might be. I mean, we do have some hurdles to to uh maybe get over and that is because we are kind of right on top of the old infrastructure of the existing sewer plant and there's water main that would have to be relocated. [clears throat and cough] We went with uh to the north side. Um we're proposing maybe going to the south side, but that's some discussion we're going to have to have internally before we get to that point. Any questions? >> I don't see any, guy. Thank you. Thanks for joining us and thanks for staying home. >> You bet. [snorts] >> Anything else for Ryan on this? >> So, Ryan, on parks, a couple things for me. Uh, first, I think it's I think it's a great idea that we're going to we are going to use these facilities or at least try to get them constructed for the relocation of fire. >> [clears throat] >> there would be a significant cost savings in us doing that over the time of the project for the fire station so that we're not renting facility space um large [clears throat] facility space that would be extremely expensive. So I just want my colleagues up here to really think about that dive into that uh a minute. Uh if we had to go out and rent you know uh space to do this u it would just be money thrown uh thrown away in rent. So that's a big deciding factor for me. Go ahead. Right. >> If I could just add on to that, I think finding a space in a suitable location would probably be another challenge. >> Agreed. Agreed. Um and then um another piece to the parks facility. Um I know they do a lot of uh their own work. They work on their equipment. They fabricate um they they work with all of these uh other departments in in projects and things and fixing and and making our equipment last much longer uh than than what ordinarily would be uh without that work. So I think that space uh to me is long overdue. Um, one piece, uh, guy that I, uh, put in a memo or in an email to colleagues in Ryan today was, uh, I'm surprised to not see the Skellyy Field and Pen Meadows lighting projects in here. Uh, it's something we've talked about for quite a while. I know, uh, the the response from staff was there just hasn't been conversations with NLCBS, uh, about the original idea of cost share. Uh we did a cost share for the bathrooms uh facility and the uh >> uh what am I blanking? >> Restroom. >> Yeah, the restroom concession. >> Concession there. That's the term concession. Thank you. Uh and that worked out very well. Uh to me, Pen Meadows >> um up until Hi Center was really the draw to the to the town. um the majority of our weekend usage and and folks coming to our community on the weekends, especially in uh baseball season, softball season, are Pen Meadows fields. That's where we're seeing the largest draw to our community to this point. um lights on uh Skellyyfield as well as the largest Pen Meadows field. I think uh opens up additional opportunity uh for folks to uh stay here, frequent our one hotel, hopefully soon to be other hotels that will be coming uh to the area. And I just think we're missing the mark on the lighting project. Um, and I I would like to see that um not not put in FY27, but to see it uh disappear from the 5-year plan. Uh, I think we're missing the mark there. Those are my comments, Mayor. Thank you. >> Thanks, Brian. >> Anyone else? Other comments? I think I [clears throat] would just add for the fire station that I don't think it's reasonable for them to try and function out of the space as construction go is going on. I don't I think we're kind of sounds like we're kind of past that, but I know that was being considered at at one point. [clears throat] I I don't see that as being an option. >> We'll have to just wait and see how this fire study turns out, but it doesn't seem like that's the u the path to [snorts] go down. Yeah, we're we're we we we we agree. >> Yeah, >> it's it's a and we'll talk about this here in a little bit, but we do think the for us to get the best most usable facility, it makes sense to get them out of there and and have a blank canvas. >> I agree. >> Yeah. [snorts] Well, if there are no more comments on parks, I'll move to the street uh street projects and uh Michael Pentecost is is with us this evening. Three of them on here uh that we want to uh bring to your attention. The first is the extension of Commercial Drive. And I think most of you uh were on council when we acquired a a small piece of property just north of uh adjacent to Zeller Street uh on the north side of Zeller Street that would allow us to push Commercial Drive through. Uh and uh this has been in the CIP for a couple years now. And uh we're proposing to um to use our street repair program. So this is cash on hand to to accomplish this smaller project. And we'd like to get it out of the way before we start significant work on Ranchaw Way next year. Uh the next project on the list here is East Forever Green Road. Uh this is also one that we've approved some conceptual design work and design work for now and it's a joint project with with Coralville. So this project is actually um going to be going out for bid in FY27. Uh we have $2.5 million from the feds uh on this project and then the remainder of the of the of the project would be split 50/50 between us and the city of Coralville. And then lastly, Ranchaw Way. Uh again, we're in the midst of design here and [clears throat] the idea would be to move forward with construction in FY27. Uh significantly sized project of almost $14 million. Uh I want to get the number correct on federal dollars here. We have $2.9 million in federal dollars for this project. So, a significant um a significant amount of of of uh federal participation there. Uh and there again, that much like that'll have a similar path as did the Forever Green Road Jasper roundabout project this past year where we'll be designing it going out for bid later this year. Those are the street projects. I think we asked about it before, but we're sure the commercial drive is far enough back from Randshaw that it's not going to cause a backup >> when we [clears throat] Well, I I will let Josiah answer that unless you want me to take a shot at it, but >> go ahead. I'm wait for it to pull up. >> Okay. When we before we pulled the trigger on that project, we made sure we did the study to make sure uh there wouldn't be any implications there. So, we feel confident that uh where it would come out on on Zeller would be just fine. >> And then people from coming from Zeer, will they be able to get into the UCD area? >> Yes. >> Straight into there. >> Yeah, it would be it would be one shot all I don't recall. It would that go all the way up to to >> Jerry Street? No, though, do they? >> In a in a roundabout way through the development. It doesn't it's not a direct link. Um >> but it would go up through the development and then and then wind out. But yes, >> but you get in the parking lots and stuff. >> Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, >> that uh that connection to Zeller is behind the turn lanes up at Zeer for Rancho. Okay, we'll move on um to wastewater and uh we have Drew and uh Drew Lamers uh our wastewater superintendent and uh Michael also uh is involved in this project as the uh as the department that manages our collection division. But we have a gravity sewer project uh that we're proposing here and it's actually been we it's been on our radar for quite some time. Uh we had uh a study done years ago uh that identified potential bottlenecked areas throughout our our system. You might remember this has probably been 7 to 10 years ago. We had a big project on Front Street down right across from Van Allen School where we were putting in two big sewer pipes. That was probably the most significant area that study told us needed to be addressed right away. This one said over time we need to make sure and address this. And as you saw in a memo earlier today uh because uh it it we were able to offer it some relief because we're now diverting some of that sewer down into Coralville's system. Uh but eventually as these areas develop and and I think right across from the University of Iowa's new hospital will be a big one. We're going to need a larger pipe there. And so we believe it makes sense to get on that right now. And uh and that's the the project being proposed in wastewater for FY27. >> Okay. >> Do do the repayments for that then come out of the sewer collection? >> They do. Phones. Okay. >> And that is shown uh in the model. We have that built into the model. Y >> uh moving on to water. Uh Greg Metick is is here this evening. Uh a couple projects. Uh the first one we probably need to retitle this. We've we've got it listed as a water treatment facility edition. It's really the water shop edition. This is what I spoke about earlier. This would be a I think a 4,900 foot addition to the east of the existing shop there. It's right as you it's part of the Brian building right as you come into the to the public works campus. Uh and here again the idea is that this this building the existing piece and the new piece would be what would house fire station and then we would move the stuff that's in there down to the park shop and um likely uh bring in uh some temporary housing for folks. And I know Greg and Brian were talking as >> [clears throat] >> uh as uh early as today actually about setting up some temporary offices within the water department itself. So still a lot of collaboration and and um discussion going on. Uh but I've mentioned this and I think I heard someone else mention it. What I really love about this group of our management team is that they're willing to work together. there are no silos there and and um this is one prime example of that. Again, uh we're still um uh talking through this and and hope to have some further discussion with this group about both the water shop and the park shop uh as early as our next meeting in February February, but certainly at that second meeting if if not before. And then the last project from a water standpoint is one that um uh you're all aware of already and it's we approved the design contract for it earlier in this fiscal year. We approved the facility plan uh very early in this fiscal year. uh and that is to uh upgrade not only the water plant itself from a capacity issue but also drilling two new wells uh and the transmission lines then from the wells to the plant. Uh so it's a pretty significant project probably three or four different divisions of that project. So three or four different bids um bid packages. Uh we are really early on in design and anticipate that to go through most of this year questions on water. Okay. Well, let's move into fire. And there are two projects um one slightly larger than the other. Uh the first project is the confined space and high angle equipment program. And we we uh for the longest time our confined space team included various members of our public works department uh who were trained and and had um and we had had certain equipment in place for when uh individuals had to enter into a confined space. But it really wasn't we were only serving ourselves there. we weren't helping other communities. It was really just for North Liberty. Uh the the chief and and his department are going to take that team over. Um and this transition started last year and last year's budget included a $30,000 investment into this program. Uh [clears throat] uh but and expand on it. So it's not just uh confined space, it's high angle rescue as well. And so that involves a great deal of equipment and training. Uh so in total we'll have about $65,000 invested in this. 32,000 of that is is slated for for FY uh 27. And if you want some additional specific details on that, I'm sure the chief would love to elaborate uh a little bit more on that. And then of course the other project within this this department is the firehouse. And we are uh we've had a couple meetings uh before the first of the year before the first of the year. We've had a couple meetings since the new year. Uh and having been a part now this will be I think my fourth building project uh in in half a dozen years or so. uh these early the early part of this process in my opinion is always the most painful because you're going through a lot of detail and programming and making sure everything is just so and so we don't really we don't have an [clears throat] update for this group yet but when we do we will um uh bring it uh to you and and have shive uh present on some of the work uh and kind of the the final footprint of of what we're proposing. Uh [clears throat] but we anticipate design happening all of this year and again hopefully bids going out um at the end of this year with construction to start next year. >> How soon do you think we'll have an opportunity to hear about these the plans? >> Well, uh I don't know. [clears throat] Uh >> March, >> I would say at least March. Yeah. um potentially uh maybe even a small update uh when we talk about the transitioning or the the building of the parks and water project. So [snorts] >> I miss 18 million was the number that we had to demolish the old building and build new. Correct. >> Yeah, that is. Yes. And in fact, um, they said the some of the initial work they did, we're by demolishing the old building and starting from scratch, it's about a $300 $300,000 savings anticipated. Uh, rather than staging everything and trying to trying to um, uh, you know, deal with what we had. And when it comes to adding the extra shop space potentially, you know, sharing that, does that call for a different kind of building or those were what we were planning for those additions? Do they just inter, you know, interchange or does stuff have to get switched around to accommodate the >> We're still talking through some of that. Um, and you know, one of the questions, um, the chief was talking to me today about is, you know, where do we store, uh, the turnout gear as an example in this, and do we need, you know, special storage for that? So, we're still talking through that, but there won't be any living quarters in the storage buildings. We would bring that in uh into like a mobile home or something like that for the for the folks [clears throat] who are working the 24-hour shift to to sleep. tents. >> Uh I suppose if they want to [laughter] >> joke >> Ryan on the confined space, I would [clears throat] like to hear from the chief. It is a smaller amount, so I I don't want to be uh take a long time with the chief, but um years past, most of the confined space rescue needs have been city- based, meaning the folks behind you and their staffs are in confined spaces. They had their own safety uh and rescue team. Um, I'm guessing and I I'm wanting to hear this from you that the need for this team now to be firebased uh is really being driven by a lot more confined spaces in the hospital. Maybe >> it is hospital, you know, and as we uh continue to get out in the community, we're finding more and more confined spaces, whether it's the school district, centro, you know, they're in quite a few buildings and so those folks are making entries in those spaces. Um, so it just stands to reason that if we are going to be their rescue service, which if something happens in those spaces, they're calling us, we should probably be invested in in the team. >> Have you guys uh discussed, Ryan, uh the option down the road of a uh being able to bill for service, whether it's a service call or proactively billing yearly for the number of confined spaces to help fund this team long term. We have not talked about that internally yet, but I think as we deal with the potential changes coming down the the road at the state level, a lot of cities are visiting what else they can build for and this would certainly be some a discussion point for sure. >> Very good. >> Thanks, Steve. >> [clears throat] >> Well, I think unless there are any other questions on capital projects, I will slide into the local option sales tax discussion. >> No questions for me, Ryan. Just [snorts] maybe more of a comment. Uh when you look at some of these numbers, um you know, whether they're from the 32 to the $18 million range, right? Um no doubt a significant uh investment and this group is charged with being financial stewards of that. Um, so I just want to make sure that um there's a a a sense of appreciation that goes out to the team uh internally uh to being from what I've seen in my two years on here and this group uh even longer um forward thinking proactive approach that says hey you know what these are the things we need to do at the right times and for the right reasons um because if we don't make these investments then they become an expense uh and a significant expense in both hard and soft costs. So very much appreciate the effort that everybody gets to this point. Um some big numbers. Yes. Uh but also investments rather than expenses. So thank you for that. >> Okay. We'll move into local option sales tax. And I would call your attention uh to um there's a a model on it would be on um let's bring that up here. Your model should have pages at the bottom of it, a page number. And uh this particular one is page 17 of 30. And this is a new revenue as you all know for us. And uh we are projecting based on sales data from 2024 because that's the latest sales data that's out that we'll receive about $2.8 million in this first year starting July 1. Now uh I think um logic would tell you it's probably going to be a little bit more than 2.8 8 million given that costs on everything have gone up. Therefore, sales tax revenue um will go up as well. Uh but we we want to be or we want to be uh as with all of our revenues conservative. And so that's what we're projecting. And I you'll you'll hear me use two terms here, projected and actuals. Uh so I want to make sure um you understand what I'm I'm trying to articulate. So in year one, we're projecting 2.8 8 million. Our team believes that it's important uh for this firehouse project to devote about 90% of the projected revenues to that project. We think if we do that, we might have the ability to do an internal loan which would allow us to pay less interest and the interest we would pay would be to ourselves. We still might have to do an external loan just because of the size of this project. And uh Tracy and I are meeting with our bond council, I think, next week to talk through that a little bit more. Uh and we have some time, of course. But if we were to commit 90% of the projected revenues, uh we could have this fire station paid off in just over seven years, which is pretty impressive for an $18 million facility. And um what I tried to do in in the model is show how that would impact uh property tax rates. And um I'll get to that in a second. I let me talk through uh the rest of what this model is showing. And so we have 90% going to firehouse fund in this particular model. We have 10% going to uh what we've called the neighborhood fund. We don't have a neighborhood fund established yet. The idea being part of the ballot language talked about investing money into housing, neighborhood reinvestment, uh, and similar type projects. And so in this case, 90% or excuse me, 10% of the revenue, the model is showing 10% of the revenue going to that fund of the projected revenues. Then what the model does is it would it would at the end of the year we'd see what what are our actual revenues versus projected. We believe that the actual revenues would be higher. And so anything above the projected revenues would then go into what we would call the local option sales tax fund and could be used at the discretion of the city council for various projects within the bounds of that initial ballot language. Now as I said in uh uh to this group already uh the 10% is arbitrary. Uh we knew there would be uh discussion about that. We obviously hope there's discussion about that. Uh we do, our team feels pretty strongly that 90% is a good number for the firehouse project because it's it's a big one. It's $18 million. Uh and it will be up to this group then to decide how well it's up to this group to decide how you allocate all of it, but in particular this 10% if you want to see something different with that uh we can certainly do that. And and um I mentioned I think in the in the memo that I anticipate us having some discussion at [clears throat] our April strategic planning session about this money. Uh and and that might be a better time to to dive into that. We certainly can do it now as well, but that might give [clears throat] the group a little bit more time to process it as well. Uh for the budget standpoint, whoops. I think it would be important to tell us if the 90% is okay and if you're okay with the 10% we can do that or we can um we can just show that as a a revenue not to be allocated or transferred anywhere. So why don't I stop there to make to see if there are questions on what's in this model or anything we just talked about. Could you explain the internal loan of how you would >> Yeah, I mean it's first of all I I want to the caveat is is we need to visit with our bond council to make sure uh we're able to do it on something this large. We did an internal loan probably 10 or 15 years ago. It's a long time ago. uh on a much much smaller scale under a million bucks I think. And basically what we're doing is borrowing from other funds within the city. It could be uh the water fund, it could be uh the hotel motel fund, the general fund, it could be anything, a combination of funds. We would we would borrow that money from from there to and make sure there's still ample money in those funds so they don't go in the red. transfer it into a project account uh and then use a local option sales tax to repay those funds. And the the difference between that and in an external loan of course is the interest stays here. Uh and um we can amortize it as such as we can put you know all 90% towards that repayment and get it paid off just like that. In a lot of cases when you go onto the external market they have prepayment penalties. So you they want your interest >> and as you as you look at this you may have to come up with maybe a hybrid. So [clears throat] >> and then we're able to do that because we have enough uh balance in the funds that we have to keep for other projects like the water and the sewer department you know so that we can work on those loans as well for better rates and stuff. Exactly. And so you in your council packet this month, you probably saw the the December revenues report when cash on hand right now is $42 million. That's um um a nice a nice chunk of funds. However, you know, we have property taxes in for the first part of the year. Um we still have some um bond money in that we're haven't spent yet on projects. And so over the course of this fiscal year, that'll come down a bit. So that's what we have to juggle and manage and make sure we never have an account that doesn't have any money in it. >> And then this 9010 kind of split is just a policy. So we would just do a resolution and we could [snorts] >> Yeah, I don't I don't even know that we would need that. And I think that I mean it the the council can decide annually monthly if you want how you want to >> so easy enough to adjust as we move forward. >> Yes. >> So if you if you were not committed or wanted more time to think about that 10% what we would show in our budget document to the state is that that 10% is coming into the local option sales tax fund. It's not moving. It's staying right there. Yeah, I think I'm just going to comment here. I think for me, Ryan, just rereading the language of what was approved by the voters and the flexibility that was intended for that. Um, at least from my seat, I I'd like it to say um that that not specifically directed towards the neighborhood fund. It allows that flexibility for the capital improvement plans and also uh neighborhood funds. So if we could just redirect that language to have lost fund as opposed to neighborhood fund. My my my concern is that the perception is once established then it's going to be hey you know what oh well you're taken from a neighborhood fund to to work on a capital improvement plan or whatever the case is. And that's not the intent of the language. The intent of the language is have that inherent flexibility. Um so that's what my recommendation would be is to change that language at the onset so that we can have that flexibility going forward. certainly easy enough for us to do, but I I would like it to make sure everyone's in agreement with that. >> I don't think it matters what it's called. We're going to have this conversation in a couple of months on what to do with monies in there anyway. So, we could call it Brian's fund if you want to. >> I certainly don't want >> I would prefer we didn't. Yeah, I [laughter] would prefer same >> it is in the ballot language though what we can spend >> money >> we have to work within the guidelines >> right the Brian's fund or the neighborhood fund could be for the fire department so >> my question on the internal loan or potential of why is it necessary to charge ourselves an interest rate >> it's the it's the law >> that's a good season. [laughter] >> So, Ryan, on on that on that topic, I guess uh and it it [clears throat] is a little little more work. Um I I would want to see if if we're not going to do the internal loan if so talk to bond council if it is possible and we get that approval, then do this homework. Don't do it before. Um a comparison. So, if we do not do internal loaning, what it would do to the debt service levy? Um, so we could see if we were going to take those projects, we were going to put them on debt to see what those interest payments, you know, could be open market on the geo bond rates. I think that would be helpful for this group to see what the savings would be. >> Yeah. And I just want to clear something up. [clears throat] We wouldn't if we went and and borrowed the traditional bond, we wouldn't have to put it on the we would borrow it as a geo >> Oh, go Yeah. funded by local option sales tax. >> Okay? >> So, it would still be paid by local option sales tax, but in running some real rough numbers, and I mentioned this to the mayor the other day, if we did a traditional 15-year note on $18 million, I think I said it was about $6 million in interest uh paid, you know, out somewhere else. I I don't know what our interest the required interest rate we would have to um charge ourselves. That's what we need to talk about bond council, but it' be a lot less than >> Yeah. >> what we can get out on the market right now. >> Okay. >> And again, we get to keep >> Mayor, I am uh in a similar boat as Brian and and you could uh probably tell by the question, although our names are not on the questions uh which one I asked on this on this topic. I was adamant as we moved into this uh bond language. And I I I agree wholly with Brian that um in in listening to and hearing from constituents prior to the vote and post vote, everyone knew that the majority of this upfront was going for the fire station. Um so that that's to me is a slam dunk. I think 90% certainly makes sense. The heartburn that I had with the 10% was I was adamant that we not place uh a percentage in the language of the bond vote. So the clarification from Ryan today was helpful uh because we did not do that. You know, we did not hamstring that and um we left it uh more flexible. While I I understand we can do whatever we want with the lost funds, I do agree when folks from the public are reading packets or they're they're looking and and grazing. They're not looking at detail. I'm one of those. I only have so much time to look at uh at those types of things. I don't want there to be a misconception, especially to our outside partners that may latch on to a 10% language and then come back to us with, you know, requests or concerns that we're not at 10% or things like that. I I I just think that it it does create confusion, not internally cuz like you said, we can we can vote and spend those funds on whatever we want, but the outside view I I bring he brings up a good point. I think we need to be cautious with that. And I I think a reword would be would be useful. >> So would it be helpful just not to have a separate spot? >> Well, have separate funding put [snorts] out there. I guess what I'm trying to understand is what's the goal? Cuz a name or a word is just a name or a word. I mean, is it a matter of like having dollars set aside that are not specifically going No, the fire station every year? >> No, I think I I think the the 90% Cher Street Firehouse fund calling that out serves a purpose. It's the identifying it as hey the other 10% are going to this specific project or this specific fund is the the verbiage that needs to be changed and in order to do that to Ryan's recommendation we can change it to say loss fund and then if we want to dedicate that 10% to the neighborhood fund or 5% to capital improvements and 5% to neighborhood fund however we want to do that that allows flexibility that this council established and also put in within the language. So that would be my recommendation and grant I don't know if we need to do something with that or if you just change it within the budget. But for me, for my seat, I would say [clears throat] Cherry Street Firehouse fund 90% as written in the budget and then uh lost fund as opposed to neighborhood fund 10%. >> I I I do think it's semantics, mayor. I I do I think it's as simple as that. >> I got you. >> Yeah. Um but I I think the the meeting in April, at least to me, that's going to be a great conversation with us. I'm I'm actually excited to have that to see what we come up with um and and what we can partner with. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> So, if it says something like lost project fund >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. [cough] Yeah. I [clears throat] got you. >> Thank you all. >> Okay. So, yes. Well, I just have a question about the property tax relies the 50% to the levy and can you just explain? >> Sure. So, based on this model, we would actually be diverting 90% of the local option sales tax fund to property tax relief. Some might call it property tax avoidance. And this is what I know Iowa City's working on. I believe Coralville is doing the same thing with the rec center and the De Moine Metro has use their local option sales tax for similar type purposes. But what we're showing here is without this revenue and we move forward with the fire station project, firehouse project, your property taxes are going to go up to this level. and that [clears throat] that um I tried to I know it's a lot of numbers but in here there's a page that chart that shows >> 65 >> on the electronic packet. Thank you. >> Thank you. Um that will show you what the property tax rate would be if we borrowed for that and paid with it with death debt service levy. And then it compares that to what it would be by funding it all with local option sales tax. And so if you don't mind me over here, in this particular case, a residential property valued at $300,000 would pay about $1,700 less over the life of that loan, over the life of that what was the original loan. So they're uh they're paying that's the relief they're seeing because of the local option sales tax >> because otherwise we would borrow that money to get the fire station done. >> Borrow it and pay and pay it back with that debt service levy which has a direct impact on your tax rate. >> Got it. And in in dollar terms, you could say in year one, the city's putting 2500 2.5 million towards property tax relief because that's what we're devoting to the firehouse project. >> Okay. >> Okay. Okay. So, I'll maybe just give a a brief conclusion here if that's okay. >> Sounds good. >> Thank you again. This was a great discussion and thanks to the management team members who were able to be here uh tonight. Uh we've we've now I think um um talked through in about three hours of not tonight obviously, but combined uh the FY27 budget. I think we have a great direction on operations and capital projects. Based on everything we've talked about the last two meetings, um our property tax rate uh for FY27 would be $11.84 uh per,000 in value. That's about 14 15 cents higher than last year. And the driver of that is the um the debt that came on this year for the final uh piece of the city hall project that we borrowed for and we this had been in the in the model for a number of years. So we knew that was going to happen. Uh but with any luck that not with any luck with planning and using local option sales tax that debt service levy uh should flatten out here in the years to come. uh and uh and that so that's where we would we would be at uh in FY27. So next steps for us then is to um put all of this data [clears throat] into the states form and just to not to bore you but we have um an internal software that we're required to use and we um put it in this model so that it's much easier to read and now we'll transfer this data to to the state forms. We'll bring those back to you along with the most recent um model changing the local option sales tax and and um going through it one more time and make sure there are any other refinements we need to make. Uh and we'll have um our first public hearing I believe I said is is going to be in >> March. March. >> March. Thank you. You have that date, Tracy? >> 27th. >> March. It's and toward the end of >> 24th, March 24th. >> Yep. >> And it's April 14th for the final final. >> Yep. >> Any final questions or thoughts before we >> anyone anyone [clears throat] watching? Can you uh provide um a quick snapshot on property taxes that will be assessed to homes, commercial projects here next year as a net effect of our rate that we're setting? Yes, I can. >> That's also on page 100 or >> Yeah, >> you got that there? >> Yeah, I do. >> Okay. >> So, that's a good point. So, despite the fact that the t property tax rate would go up 15%. This is [clears throat] where Iowa's property tax system is pretty darn confusing. But the roll back, the residential roll back dropped almost 3%. So, when you look at that, the average um I shouldn't say the average, the median home value in North Liberty based on some census data is $300,000. A $300,000 home will pay about $81 almost $82 less in FY27 than they did in FY28. That's a direct result of the roll back that dropped almost 3%. Now commercial is a little bit different um because they only a small portion the first $150,000 of their value is subject to the roll back. The rest of it uh is at 90%. So uh a $500,000 valued business is going to pay about $6 more annually. uh and if it's a bigger uh like a a $ 1.5 million business, they'll pay about $140 a year more. So, uh they will see a an increase on the commercial side of things. Thank you. I think it's really important when you hear that we're spending $18 million for something or 5 million for something else. The the net effect on property taxes and what that means to us living here is is really important. And those are all uh numbers that are in this packet as well. >> Agreed, Mayor. And I I would say in in years past because of the legis the legislation and what the state sends to everyone to show in a very confusing fashion of what they're paying and what the property taxes are going to I know there's a new bill um at least introduced to try to clean that up. The mayor is is trying to paint that picture very clearly here of which we hope the state will be able to do that. Um he didn't even have a calculator in front of him and he could do it. So, it's that that is um my hope for the state that they can clean that up because we did have a number of constituents that came in here post those letters being sent that were very confused who were told on the piece of paper that their taxes were going up 15%. And that was not the case. So, Mayor, I appreciate you pointing that out. Maybe we can point back to this meeting and time stamp this meeting uh if those letters don't get changed for this year. Thank you again. I think we're set and we'll we'll we'll bring those documents to you in March. Thank you. >> There wasn't anything left on special revenues. We covered that. >> Uh we did through as we were talking about projects. Yeah. >> Okay. >> We will move on to item 11 which is animal control ordinance and this is uh item A is a public hearing regarding proposed amendments to the animal control ordinance. Is there anyone in the audience wishing to speak on this item? Seeing no one, I will close the public hearing and move on to item B, which is first consideration of ordinance number 2026-02. This is an ordinance amending chapters 55, 56, and 57 of the code of ordinances of the city of North Liberty, Iowa, concerning and reorganizing provisions for animal control, pet licenses, and dangerous and potentially dangerous animals. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? So moved. >> Second. >> Moved >> by way and seconded by Forney. You guys have any questions? >> I just was reading that I was like, "Wow, this stuff is really messed up." >> It Yeah. Um many small towns uh turn to the same basic uh code uh providers uh for Yeah. We need a city code. Well, let's go to someone who writes city codes. Uh and so there's lots of uh lots [clears throat] of of a good solid base and then uh we grow and we identify new needs and we open up a dog park and we have this and that and we add a thing here and a thing there and all of a sudden our code starts looking like Frankenstein's monster. Uh and so this is just an effort to clean it up. We have in chapter 55 has 29 subsections. I've I've narrowed it down to 10 uh in categories that make sense so you can find what you're looking for. uh that there's nothing substantive or of of value that's being [clears throat] uh that's being removed here. And I'm happy to talk about any specific concerns you might have, but this is just reorganizing this so that I don't go crazy every time I look at it, frankly. Uh and uh making it a better resource for the public. >> We don't want you to go crazy. >> I mean, >> thank you. Any other questions? [clears throat] >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> For I park. I >> Smith >> I >> libold >> I >> Wen >> I >> motion [clears throat] carries 5-0. Item 12 is SST forever green future land use map amendment and zoning map amendment and item A is planning commission and staff recommendations. Ross, >> thank you mayor. Um if you can see on the screen there, there's several requests here. Um I've drawn those blue lines there to show what the requested zonings are to give you an idea of what the request is. Um, we can go down a little bit further and I can show you a more a different map that kind of overlays that with current zoning. Uh, right there it's a little smaller on the left, but um, the large purple area is currently RM12. Um, there's some RM8, which is the lighter purple, and the yellow is RS6. So, the, uh, portion on the left would be RM14. I would note that recent reszoning of the Cedarhurst assisted living facility to RM21. So a little little bit higher density makes sense to me. Um the area uh along the north and kind of um coming around to the to the east along uh would be RD10. Um and then there would be an area along the east property line and south property line that would remain RS6 and then a small area in the middle uh would be uh C2 expand that C2 area. Um you can see on the uh right hand side the current future land use uh map designation is urban low intensity. I remember at the time we did the original resoning, we we just we kept the urban low intensity even though we had some some higher uh requests like the RM12. Um but I I am recommending that we change it just to if if the uh council um wants to move forward with approval to to change those map to reflect um the the zoning that would be changed as well. Again, here's just a couple of um UMI and UHI descriptions. The UMI, urban medium intensity, uh densities of of 7 to 14 dwelling units to the acre. If you go to UHI, it's it's generally commercial or 14 units to the acre or higher. Um whoops, going back this way. We had a a virtual good neighbor meeting on December 18th. Uh one person outside city staff attended. Um there is an objection in the file. Um it pertained to really about noise, I think, as opposed to just really objecting to the reasonzoning. Um they did indicate some people were starting earlier. So I just responded that, you know, if they're if they're starting before our noise standards, please, you know, give us give us a call and we'll we'll take care of that. Just a couple of other things that are are are going on here. I mean, Alexander Way uh would run through the property. The bottom left just shows a circle of where we uh where Alexander Way would come through the property. And Alexander Way, as we know, is a plan to collector Street that extends uh from actually south of Forever Green Road all the way to north of Penn. Uh and actually the map on the right is the Coralville land use plan. It actually shows Alexander Way, named by whatever they call it, um all the way down to Highway 6. So, it's a it's a pretty significant corridor in our community. uh and and Coralville. So secondly, we were a little concerned with how this subdivision would lay out. This is a concept plan. Uh the the preliminary plat would come to PNC um in its February meeting and then um at final reading for city council of the resoning. Um we were a little concerned of, you know, how would this lay out in the overall plan for the community. And so, um, MMS is working on both projects on for this subject property as well as the the Hodgej development Michaelelsson to the east. And then they laid out a concept for that middle property. Admittedly, there's no input from that property owner, so things could change, but but this is generally how we would expect the grid to be laid out with those connections. And we were we were generally agree agreeable to this concept. Um, and just you may ask like and and John can talk about this a bit more just you know what what is the the need for this request? I mean this we we just we did this resoning. We saw no action on the property. I I'm not quite sure what happened with the ownership group but it seems like they are motivated uh to move forward and again maybe John can talk a little bit more about that. Uh we there were two findings uh one with respect to the land use amendments and then the second with respect to the resonings. Um, on January 6th, the planning commission accepted those two listed findings and forwards a request to the city council with a recommendation for approval. And that vote for approval was unanimous. Thank you, mayor. Thanks, Russ. Uh, I have got a question. It could go in any of these next sections, so I apologize if it seems a little bit out of order uh as we get there. Uh but you had a little bit of uh a question about Alexander Way and running through there with these uh potential reszonings. Uh how will access look on Alexander Way, especially in that uh in that RD RD10 and potentially RS6 up there. You can kind of see Alexander Way is is the road that you see it intersecting with Forever Green Road and then it kind of meanders to the northeast and then exits kind of due north at the uh at the north end property line. So um the areas on the west which would be the RM14 um would have limited access and then the um commercial on the kind of to the southeast would have limited access. um most of the properties would have um access on or would face those uh side streets if you will >> and it's only as you get to the kind of the north end of the property uh that you see a couple of RS6 lots that would have frontage on it. So, excellent question, but it's something we considered. We do have a planned 8ft wide trail on the west side of Alexander Way and so we really want to limit individual homeowners from having driveway accesses along there. Um, so that's another reason why we thought it was preferable to have um something that was like an RM district because you can have town homes or multif family that have um development that's internal and not actually kind of having driveway accesses off of that street. >> So, but those three lots that are in the northeast corner of this division right now, they will all three have well at least two of them will have a driveway. >> That's right. Correct. >> Will Okay. >> And then and then we don't know it yet. you you said a moment ago, but as as we go north into this next one, we're going to be going through what looks like, you know, potentially RM RM10 up there and and those are all going to be driveways. >> Yeah. Uh let me let's see go to this. So, you kind of see on the map there's just a small area of the RD10, which would be the zero lot lines, but as you go north of that section, uh that's all RS6. >> Mhm. So those lots would have um less density, but yes, they would front on Alexander Way. Sometimes it's not um always practical to prevent everything from having, you know, not having direct access on that street, especially how that kind of street grid holds out. Um we've seen a quite a bit of um RM and RD zoning on the west uh towards Kansas and as we progressed east. Um we felt it was important to kind of hold the line with single family such that um these middle properties um would transition to more of a single family development pattern. >> Yeah. My only concern is future access to Alexander Way or having all of these access points uh from those driveways. Can there be more um setback requirements uh for the homes or the buildings from the street uh in that case? because you know there are very few exceptions I can think of around here where we might have a collector street like it's North Liberty Road or Jones Boulevard where nobody has a driveway access Jones Boulevard being the exception but those are legacy properties on the on the west side right there. So is there anything that we can add to the zoning um or is it already there that that requires setbacks to be further from the road than what there might be say at your house or or my house? I mean it's certainly something we could talk about. I will say as a collector and I guess the the probably more recent, you know, Juniper going through Arlington Ridge um is a collector street. There are several that have um access off of there. So it's not >> I would say um examples like Jones and and your point is valid um is is probably in in what we would call this. So this would be what we would call like more of a neighborhood collector. Um something like Jones is something I would call like a major major collector street. We're absolutely we were trying to limit access off of that. Um we do with respect to collector streets there is a little bit more rightaway width along those areas. So there is a built-in and the road is a little bit wider. Um but certainly certainly something we could talk about. Yeah, >> I know especially with how the the road kind of lines up um especially with this property and the property to the north, you know, you are getting into a limited lot depth situation. So, as you increase that front yard, you know, the the the rear yard kind of decreases. >> Yeah. Yeah. [snorts] And and I understand your point about this being really a neighborhood collector street if people are going to dump down to they're going to dump down to Forever Green Road or they're going to go uh onto Penn Street uh as it kicks up that way. So it won't be a terrific pass through opportunity like Jones Boulevard might be right now or Kansas. >> Yeah. And and you know some of the things we we've talked about with the developer to the north um Mr. Alen Marks is you know you see kind of a concept for a roundabout that was something we insisted on there. That would be the intersection of Remley and um Alexander Way and you know those concerns we've heard about traffic calming um since I've been here. So that was something we >> we asked for and Alan Ellen showed it on there. So, we're we're trying to implement things in in curvy streets just to, you know, try and get people to slow down and and and treat it like it's a neighborhood street. >> Okay. Okay. Thank you. And apologize if I put that in the wrong spot. >> Great questions. >> Are there any other questions for for Russ right now? >> If not, I'll move on to item B, which is resolution number 2026 07. And this is a resolution amending the 2022 North Liberty comprehensive plan connected to tomorrow future land use map for certain property located in North Liberty, Iowa from urban low inensity uli to urban high intensity. Could I have the motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second move by Park, seconded by Liebold. Are there any questions? Tracy, could I have roll call, please? Lold. >> Hi. >> Won. [clears throat] Hi. >> Smith. Hi >> Park. >> Hi >> Courtney. >> Hi. >> Motion carries 5-0. Item C is a public hearing regarding proposed resoning. That's coming up next. Are there anyone in the audience wishing to provide comment for that? >> Good evening. John Mner with MMS Consultants. Uh I'll just briefly add to address one of the things that Russ mentioned during his presentation. There has been a a conscious effort. there's a little more interest in them moving forward uh as soon as possible or fairly soon here hopefully this year with construction development of the property. They have some interest in the single family lots and the zero lots and the multif family and the commercial for that matter. So uh this would provide that initial connection from Alexander from Forever Green towards the south again pointing towards towards the north in the preserve in some of those areas up by the Centennial Park. Uh the other thing I'd add, we we did really try to pay attention to limiting the number of access points to Alex Alexander for that reason. Um being aware of what was on the approved preliminary plot in the zoning immediately to the north and also up in the preserve where you've got those single family RS6 lots right on on Alexander, but then limit it to those two that are in that northeast corner as best as possible. Uh and then to the other point about the the street grid again that's conceptual in nature but just to show the general opportunity to connect to some of those sub sub streets on the on the east side and Michaelelsson edition thinking through things ahead a little bit ahead of time certainly not a set in stone there's some opportunities to do some different things there as somebody starts to look at that property and I'm available for any questions if you have any any questions for Thanks for those thanks for that context. I'll close public hearing and move on to item D, which is first consideration of ordinance number 2025 2026-03. And this is an ordinance amending the zoning map district designation for certain property located in North Liberty, Iowa from RS6 single unit residence district, RM8 multi-unit residence district, and RM12 multi-unit residence district to R six singleunit residence district from R S6 single unit residence district. RM8 multi-res Residence District and RM12 multi-unit residence district 2 RD10 2-unit residence district from RM12 multi-unit residence to RM14 multi-unit residence district and from RM8 multi-unit residence district and RM12 multi-unit Residence District to C2 highway commercial district. Can I please have a motion for consideration? Repeat. >> Can we short Can we shorten this? I have to do this too many more times. >> I just Can you repeat that? >> Yes, I'd be happy to. [laughter] Paul, >> you seconded Whison's motion by the [clears throat] way. Thank you. Grateful for you. Uh, are there any other questions? >> No, really is kind of putting everything together. That's the way it just needed to kind of redefine how what where our original plan was just because as you start putting Matt streets and everything in it. >> Yeah. And and you know, we've had a couple of things happen around it and and just kind of started to make sense to me and I think um Mr. Hiren and myself talked, you know, the the commercial area kind of in the middle is kind of like, you know, boy, what's up with that? said, you know, it's it's right on that street that's close to Forever Green Road and and thought, you know, if there's a great opportunity for those frontage commercial parcels, um, and you know, that that area could be used for um either multif family or or even additional parking for for a really good use on that frontage. But I mean, that's a it's going to be a pretty significant intersection in our city. >> Yeah, >> Tracy, how about a roll call, please? >> Lel, >> I park. Hi >> Smith. >> Hi >> Wson. >> Hi. >> Motion carries 5-0. Item 13 is zoning cord ordinance zoning code ordinance amendment and item A is a public hearing regarding [clears throat] proposed amendments to the zoning code. Is there anyone in the audience wishing to provide comment? I will close that public hearing and move on to item B, Russ, which is staff and planning commission recommendations. >> Okay. And in my opinion, the highlight of the evening, of course. Um but just a just a small ordinance. Um I know there's a couple of new members since a couple of years ago we did a very large um zoning code update which which is essentially a a rewrite that that reorganized a lot of things that that made changes we'll talk about tonight and then future changes a lot easier in the code um that that have been really helpful. And and this one kind of does um three things. Um, number one is just amend a couple of definitions. There's there's always a couple irrelevant ones that just um have a definition but but reference nothing in the zoning ordinance and and let's get rid of those. They make no sense. >> Um, others are are amending uh language that that pertains to what we're trying to accomplish with this ordinance. Um, and then and then clarifies a couple of definitions while we're in there. um such as like private garage, which again just private garage um really understand what it means, but it just other contextual references in the code just didn't make sense. Um number two is is again the the the we have a use um we have uses in the zoning ordinance, a use table, and then we have use standards. We have individual standards that apply to each of those uses. And that's when I I talk about the reorganization of the zoning code. It makes it easy if we want to apply um certain standards to individual uses if we want. And that that becomes a pretty powerful tool in our code as opposed to just um a general um requirement such as 60% masonry for example. That's just a general requirement without much other design consideration. What we're trying to do here is um provide architectural interest in different ways that are and when you know I've had conversations over the past several years about masonry like why does the city require 60% masonry and my answer was it it's easy um from an administration standpoint right you just 60% masonry that's that's a pretty easy metric to accomplish um and it's done pretty well I think we have a a very nice built environment in the city it's done really well I think the the conversation I've had um at least and this is kind of dipping our toes into it is would there be consideration to lessening that masonry requirement and and the answer from my perspective is yes but we want to address other things in the code if not just say okay let's just reduce from 60 to 40 I think there's other things that we would want to do particularly with large scale buildings to break up that mass you have building projecting outward and we call them kind of breaks you have upward changes in elevation that that add visual interest to a large mass building. Um so and then uh also increasing the masonry requirements in residential districts. For multif family and residential districts, we require masonry on the elevations that face a street. That's it. We would include those to wrap around the entire building. Um, and I would also duplicate the language for um multi- multi-unit buildings to assisted to what we call residential care facility, which is nursing home care facilities and things like that. We had low standards for the Cedar Hurst and it turned into me kind of in in a way begging so to speak, hey, we we really think this is an important corridor. Let's just add them to the code. That makes life so much easier and and you're just a lot of times they're willing to work with you developers, but they could say, nope, we're not going to do it. we want to meet code and it's just easier to to put it in the code. I can point to the code and [cough] okay [clears throat] no problem. Just a couple of examples to kind of talk you through the mindset. Um this is a building on Kansas. We should be familiar with it adjacent to Landon. Um high amount of masonry but at least this section and the the the southern sections a little bit better but just a kind of a flat building. um very high amount of masonry, but just visually a little bit boring. Um um just because it's just flat. There's there's no projections coming out. There's no projections going up. So, uh again, a nice building. I just think there's um a couple of things that we could have done a little bit more. And again, the goals are allow allow a little bit more flexibility and to break up some of that massing. Uh here's an example of the ROA multif family. I actually think this is a pretty good um example. This is residential, but um you have 16.8% uh area of the entire facade that's window glazing, 16.94% masonry, so it meets the 25%. It's a little above. Um but it does a really good job of of the roof shapes are different. There's a lot of projections and it adds a lot of visual interest in my opinion. I thought it was pretty well done. Um here is the Emmery Place. Um, this is a residential building. I took this this morning and wow, it was cold out there. Um, >> 20 20.5% window glazing, 21.51% and and let me um mention right that anytime we have a masonry requirement, we give you credit for any glazing in your building. So that kind of as the as the window glazing um ratio goes up, the required masonry goes down. And so you have 21.5% masonry overall, 42%. So, when we're talking about going from a 60% masonry to a 40% masonry, this is a product um that could be built. Again, this is, I think, a pretty good example. Has um a lot of breaks in the facade, a lot of projections, a lot of insets, and a lot of vertical changes. I thought they did a pretty good job with this building. But that's to me is is a better standard this is with less masonry than something like that. And that's that's the goal of what we're trying to do. Um can >> I speak a little bit at the about the cladding requirement? >> Sure. >> Um just for a little bit of uh background. Um when we're talking about masonry, that's that what goes on the outside of a building, but um the state [clears throat] has requirements that have been put in place or prohibitions about what cities can and can't do. So we don't have any requirements for residential uh for the what we can't say what goes on the outside of a of a residential use um except that it has to conform with what's in the building code, right? It has to be safe to use for for home uh for uh single family uh duplexes and then multif family of 12 units or less. So this miss masonry requirement for residential uses is for only those residential units. Multif family that has more than 12 units. That's what we can require. And so um don't worry that this is going to be in in everyone's neighborhood where we have to wrap around 40% masonry in every house. This is just multif family and big multif family. I wanted to clarify that if that's and I'm I'll step off your toes there. Thanks. >> Um just a couple of examples of just some things when I look at around the community. Um this is the new building built at the corner of Penn and Ranchaw. I thought this is one of the more outstanding buildings built in our community recently um by the Hunter Group. Um just you know just some things you'll see in the code of of what I was trying to accomplish. you know, there's a a nice finish of what would I call the top. Um, a lot of breaks, a lot of lot of glow glazing, a lot of lot of vertical um changes, a lot of horizontal changes. I thought they did a really good job of here. But we're trying to take those things that you look at and say, "Wow, that looks really nice. Okay, why does that look really nice? Let's apply some of those standards to what we're doing um in multif family." And then obviously the Green State building. Um just a high level of glass that makes this, I think, a really elegant building. And I I would argue that even the masonry that's that's on here, while it looks nice, is less important just because they've used so much glazing. Um so just to kind of show you, if you increase the level of glazing um that that masonry kind of becomes less important in these large scale buildings just because it's such a nice material. And then the third one was um talk to a homeowner um about a swimming pool they wanted to put in their rear yard. Currently the zoning ordinance says the swimming pool has to be located in the rear yard. Um this is really an unfortunate incident where their entire rear yard was an easement and and they you know we talk about variances. Well, you can get a variance, but the the the standards of approval are so difficult. I just didn't feel comfortable saying, well, just go get a variance. We we don't change the code. I I always look at opportunities to say, you know, is is a code something that maybe should be changed. It's it's not a very common um circumstance, but you know, the the rear yard is is take the the back edge of the house and that area between the back of the house and the rear property line. And so if somebody wanted to put the if you had kind of a a cove, um if you will, like an L-shaped house, and you wanted to put the pool in the L, you couldn't do it. It's got to be in the it's got to be in the rear yard. And so in this case, um we we allow detached garages in the sideyard um being able to meet the setback for the main house. So, I just took those standards and said, "Okay, if you want to put a pool in the sideyard, you can do it. You've got to meet that increased setback, similar to a detached garage." Um, we don't have any objections to this request. [cough and clears throat] And the January 6th, the planning commission, uh, there was one finding that achieves consistency with approval standards. Uh, they accepted that listed finding and forwards this [snorts] request to the city council with a recommendation for approval and that vote was unanimous. Thank you, mayor. >> Thanks, Ross. That was an exciting part of our meeting today. [laughter] Thank you for taking us there. You guys have any questions for Russ before we move on? >> Just a quick one. I know Grant touched on it, but I I kind of missed this and thanks for answering all my questions prior to the meeting, but when it comes to residential houses, we're saying right now they require 25% masonry. it. So the is as as as Grant had mentioned, state law currently prohibits us from regulating anything on exterior cladding on a 12 flex or less. So we cannot require >> we cannot require colors, masonry unless there there there are exceptions like historic districts or a large overlay district or something like that, but um yeah, we we can't we we're not able to. So that requirement to carry it all the way around is only for 12 plexes and up. >> 13 plex or greater. Yeah. >> Okay. Thanks, >> Russ. With the pool in the sideyard, I I my concern would be fencing. So right now, you know, most of the HOAs in town will say you you can't have your your fence come more than a quarter of the way up your sideyard because nobody wants to look at fence in the front. So, you put a pool in the sideyard, they're going to be required to have a fence. What What's that going to do visually on the side? I would have concern about that. >> Yeah, that's fair. I mean, if if if you can't I mean, we would rely on your HOA and if your HOA says you can't have the fence in that location, that just means you can't have a pool in that location either. Um I don't I think the circumstance would be rare. I certainly could happen if that somebody would put their pool like right up along the like here's the front of my house and house is here and I'm going to locate the front there just because it it needs to be you need to have access to kind of the rear of the house and and the example I talked about was just exactly what I talked about just kind of like an L-shaped house where the rear yard was an easement where it's just natural to kind of come out of the back of the house and access that part of it. again with everything it just um it just allows a little bit more flexibility. I just don't think it's going to be a common common thing in our community. >> And back to your comment about, you know, at some point, you know, you felt like you were begging uh to, you know, to build it to look nice. That was part of my question that you helped answer. I I want us to explore those options because I go back to South Deuke Street and the development there and we were really up here begging them, please don't use duplicative design. Please don't uh duplicate your exterior cladding colors next to each other. And and we we were begging them to do that. I think I think we're past that. I think with these larger developments, especially there on South Deuke Street that is a, you know, an artery uh coming into the community as an entry point, we we we should be overbegging folks, >> make it look good. >> You know, the while the state prohibit us and like what I said, it's easy to regulate from our end of masonry. >> It's easy for the state to prohibit like we'll just say you can't do masonry, but we can regulate other things with respect to building design. We already do it with garage whiffs. We can explore things with design to break up anti- monotony, you know, things looking all the same. That is totally within our power to do. Um it's a challenging to write and you've got to write. You can't just say I don't want we don't want the two to look the same. I have to actually be prescriptive of um different means this and the same means this. But it is totally within our purview or or the city council if you wish to move forward with something like that to adopt those regulations to to kind of break up that monot and we're starting to see some of these blocks on on Birkshshire. I know there's a lot of zero lot lines that all look the same. [snorts] >> Yeah. Even even something say no no identical houses next to each other. You you get into the minor changes and the I'm not touching you uh game where you have uh it's technically not identical. you know, and so as Russ saying, this is a this sort of uh prescriptive standard is is difficult to write well and something that is a [clears throat] rule that that applies fairly that will hold up and uh and be something that people could look at and understand what they can and can't do. >> Yeah. I want to be clear, we we want to be open to development. It's not it's not about being difficult. We've we've made major changes since your arrival here in making this uh more welcoming place to set your business, to build your home, to, you know, bring your commercial uh here. And and we certainly want to do that. We want to work with the builders and the uh and the developers and not not hamper them, but we also want, you know, we want a nice city. >> And I I appreciate your comment. I agree entirely. um you know and and I think once you like a townhouse for example like you know you see the newer ones in water tower place that are just kind of the same townhouse I think or or in the watch development in the preserve is just I I think if you say okay the the building form the envelope kind of stays the same the box if you will you're just kind of changing some elements on the exterior to just make it look a little bit different um is really just what what we would be talking about and I think those subtle changes are impactful you really notice when something looks exactly the same all the way through. But if you change a roof line, here's a gable or something like that or or the gable shifts to that other side. I think I think that is something that we could we could do. >> I I think we've also been fortunate to have our developers uh understand what our what our preferences are and they've been good partners to work with and um you know that I don't anticipate that would ever change. um the the expectation, the relationship, the partnership has always been uh very very wellreceived on both ends. So um thank you for the the additional work that you've done with this though too. >> Thank you. We'll move on to item C, which is first consideration of ordinance number 2026-04, an ordinance amending chapter 167 of the North Liberty Code of Ordinances governing definitions, chapter 168 of the North Liberty Code of Ordinances governing use standards, and chapter 169 of the North Liberty Code of Ordinances governing other accessory uses. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second move by Forney, seconded by Smith. Any further questions? Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> For I. >> Way, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> Lold, >> I. >> Motion carries. 5-0. Item 14 is the fund balance policy. And this is resolution number 2026-08, a resolution approving the general fund financial reserve policy for the city of North Liberty, Iowa. Could I first have a motion for consideration, please? So moved >> second park seconded by forney. >> Brian, do you want to provide any >> I'd love to review. Uh we talked a little bit about this in our last uh budget session, [clears throat] but what we're proposing uh is increasing the ceiling on the general fund reserve to 35%. Right now we have a floor of 25, ceiling of 30. We're proposing the additional 5% because we have a surplus and have the ability to do it. and because we are not sure what's ahead in terms of of property tax reform and so we want to have some cushion here if we have to make some rather quick adjustments [clears throat] uh to upcoming budgets. I would note that the governor's proposal, property tax proposal limits cities to having a 10% reserve. >> Oh, >> 10% reserve. >> Oh, okay. Got it. >> Which would be devastating. uh simply because bond ratings would tank. I mean bond coun or the bond Moody's and and other rating agencies rely heavily on uh [snorts] surplus funds B reserve funds when they give a rating. So it it could be pretty detrimental. But this policy solid. We're recommending approval. >> We don't recommend any other kind except solid. >> You guys have any questions? Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> For I. >> Smith, >> I. >> LiDold, >> I. >> Wson, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> Motion carries 5-0. And item 15 is FY25 general fund balance allocation. [clears throat] This is resolution number 2026-09, a resolution approving allocation of excess funds from the FY2025 general fund balance according to the general fund financial reserve policy. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Moved by Way and seconded by Park. Do we have any questions or do we need any clarification on this? >> Ryan, what's the 50 for Quail Ridge? Is that baseball? >> Yes. So, we we actually have uh funding uh in the FY26 budget uh for improvements to Quail Ridge and we're requesting we're we think we're going to come up short on that, but the projects are um adding the sidewalk um for right now. We have a sidewalk to the field and we want to bring it around the park. It's a nice connection. It would connect into a neighborhood. uh and then adding parking. And so this 50,000 will help us resurface the existing lot and then add uh a smaller lot to the west. Wasn't there funds for [snorts] fencing the outfield of that field? >> Yeah, that's been that's been done, I believe. >> Okay. So, that was early. That was an earlier project. We did that this year, this spring, this this fiscal year. Early this fiscal year. >> Okay. All right. >> And the splash pad mentioned on here is the centennial. >> Yes. Yeah. It would be just so just putting that in the project funds. We could borrow less that project >> and then the workforce housing project. That's our contribution to the building that we approved. >> Yeah, we'll set we would set that aside. it it probably would will be set aside for a couple years because we we are last money in. So they have to have everything done at the state level before we contribute. And what I mean by they have to be con fully constructed before we'll we contribute. So see the building inspector vehicle on there. You're probably Don't be annoyed with me. [laughter] Is that additional to what we budgeted for? >> No, we didn't budget. We [clears throat] That was included in our conversation with the idea that we would fund it with the surplus. >> Oh, yeah. So, it's not actually in the FY27. Um, you don't see it in the model that way. Got it. Great questions. Thanks for that input there too, Ryan. [clears throat] >> Could I have a motion or a um Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> Smith, [snorts] >> I. >> Won, >> I. >> Courtney, [clears throat] >> I Lyold >> I. >> Park. >> I. >> Motion carries. Item 16 is the Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue project. And this is resolution number 2026-10, a resolution accepting the bid and authorizing execution of the contract for the Feverine Road and Jasper Avenue improvements projects, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Sorry. Second. >> Moved by Forney, seconded by Park. There were some questions um ahead of the meeting. Would anyone care to repeat them out loud? >> Mayor, my Yeah, mine was. I I just hadn't seen that name of the contractor before. So, due diligence, we just want to make sure um if we haven't used them before, we've reached out to cities that have because this was a substantially less bid. Uh low bid is great uh until it's not. >> And the answer was >> we are very confident with this firm. They've do work all over the state and a bunch for the state and uh Josiah provided some information that they're close right now. That's why you're seeing some of the staging costs and mobilization costs much less than what we budgeted for. So, we actually feel pretty fortunate uh that this [snorts] company was low bid and uh look forward to working. >> Yeah, I I saw that you know PCI was pretty close and and you know they're pretty reputable. So, I figured that you know if they're pretty close then >> Yep. Good to have these questions uh out loud. But I appreciate you guys doing that. Are there any others? Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> For I. >> LiDold, >> hi. >> Won, >> I. >> Smith, >> hi. >> Park, >> hi. >> Motion carries. 5-0. Item 17 is mowing assessment. And this is resolution number 2026-11, a resolution assessing amounts owed to the city of North Liberty, Iowa to individual property taxes. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. Second >> by way seconded by Smith. Are there any questions? >> Mayor, how many attempts do we make on those >> or Ryan? >> Attempts. I don't know that answer. We do make a good faith attempt to collect from them and if we get no response, this is the next step. >> Just there there's a happy balance there, right? Enough attempts to give them opportunity but not make it a burden financially to the city. >> Correct. Okay. >> We would much rather have the [snorts] payment. >> Yeah. >> Than make the assessment. >> Are a lot of these empty lots. >> No. >> No. People's houses. >> The enforcement guy. >> Yeah. These it's it's not very common in this community, which is good, but um we just have a few that that and and again, it's it's um we're we're it's never a a go out and mow type situation. It's always um notice, here's the code, and and then we go and do it, you know, especially when we get into growing season. Um and rightfully so, neighbors really don't like to look at high weeds and it's it's something you have to take action on or it's just going to especially if you get a lot of rain, it's going to get out of control real quick. >> I would add this is not something that we go around searching for either. These are calls we get from neighbors generally who want some action to Tracy, how about roll call? >> Lyel. >> Hi. >> Smith. >> Hi. >> Won. >> Hi. >> Park. >> Hi. >> Forney. >> I. >> Motion carries 5-0. And item 18 is rightway vacation. And this is our second consideration of ordinance number 2026-01, [clears throat] an ordinance vacating a portion of front and Debuke Street rightway in North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. Second move by Park, second by Forney. Any questions? Tracy, roll call, please. >> Smith, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> Won, >> I. >> For I, Lyel, >> I. >> Motion carries. 5-0. Item 19, old business. Actually, I did had one more uh thing that uh if Ryan could just point out the Jasper Road and Fever Green, the breakdown of Tiffen's cost of that because that's not all of >> Yes. Uh we are Hold on. I'm going to bring up the exact here, but you're [clears throat] right that is not all of ours. In fact, um, a good chunk of it is >> so one little over 1.5 is Tiffen. >> Thank you. >> And North Liberty is about 3.5 roughly. >> Yeah. So, just I think it was important to kind of throw it out there that, you know, we're just doing the project to get it done and and they'll reimburse us. Well, and if I could elaborate just a second more, I know we've been here fairly long tonight, but you know, one of the components of the property tax bills, all three of them, are the state asking, well, what are cities doing or what are counties and cities doing to work together? I mean, in the last few years, we've had multiple joint projects or programs with our neighbors. So, we're doing a lot of what's being asked already. >> I'll move on to item 20, new business. And just one reminder, tomorrow night is the MO meeting that I've talked about a couple of times. And if you [clears throat] uh can make it, uh it's at 4:30 down at the Iowa City uh city hall council chambers down there. Brian and I will be there. >> Yes, sir. >> I will do. Okay. >> I also part of our animal control ordinance had to deal with dangerous dogs and keeping them in a process. I know Corville, you know, had had run into an issue where there was a, you know, dangerous dog that that had to be euthanized and whatnot. So, I would just encourage people that, you know, to check that at least that part of the animal control ordinance out because we do have a process uh for that. >> Anything else? >> Mayor, for new business, Thursday will be better together 2030 excellence and action awards. Excited about that. uh and North Liberty has uh been uh uh wellreceived in award uh recipients in the years past. So, we'll see what this year brings. Uh and then lastly, I did bring uh an exhibit that I'll pass around to my colleagues if they're interested. U um Paul sits on the Iowa City area sports commission. Uh that commission reports the DMO board uh that I am a part of and uh they shared uh a list of upcoming events of which they are out selling our communities not just Iowa City or Corville but ours as well. Uh there's you know four full pages here of events everything from girls wrestling state championships to women uh the NCAA women's wrestling championships, Savannah Bananas, all those things. It's just really good to see um when we talk about lost and the revenue that's going to come in from that, it's right here. It's it's all of these types of events uh that are going to uh come and uh enjoy our communities uh but also share in those costs. So, if you're interested, I have that for you this evening. Thank you, mayor. >> No problem. Thank you. Appreciate your time there on that. Anything else? I'll entertain a motion to adjurnn. >> So moved. >> Second, >> Mark. I could see it coming out of your mouth. Sorry, Brian. All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed. We are adjourned. Thank you all.