Title: Eye on North Liberty: Duty Officer Program
Published: 2026-03-04 20:18:21
Video ID: WsCSJoOmUeY

So the program that we recently developed is entitled duty officer program. Our department a number of years ago was very young and sometimes we were putting very young people in response vehicles not necessarily having a dedicated experienced fire officer to also respond. Largely that fell on the shoulders of myself being the first full-time employee of the department back in late 2017. You know that just wasn't sustainable. We made some attempts over the course of the more recent years to try to identify somebody to be around if I left town. One of the options that we explored was maybe a department right next to us had the same issues. And so we reached out to Corville and in fact they were they're a department much like us, a city that's growing quickly, only have so many responders. And so we started to explore this idea of sharing a duty officer. And largely when we started it was mostly for building fire calls. Over time that morphed into cardiac arrest calls. It morphed into multi-vehicle car accidents, technical rescues, things like that. So the first thing we needed to do was identify the individuals within each department that could fill this role. And we decided on 10 people, five from Corville, five from North Liberty. That provided us a 10-day rotation. In that way, every 10 days it would be your day. you had the ability to trade that day away if it didn't work for you. We have a number of people within our group that also work career fire in other departments and so some of that rotation fell on their duty days on their career departments as well. So we wanted the ability to also be flexible enough to trade some of those days back and forth which we do and it works wonderfully. So we identified the people and then we had to develop a schedule. We had to talk about how does this duty officer get alerted to the other department's calls. A number of other things that we had to consider was a software program that would allow Corville crews to see who was the duty officer for North Liberty that particular day and vice versa. This duty officer is responsible for responding to different types of calls within their own district as well as the other district. That did not preclude senior members of the host department from responding. In fact, what we found over the course of time is that this program has allowed us to get additional experienced fire officers on the fire ground. We kicked the program off July 1st of 2025 and we're roughly 7 and 1/2 months into it now and it's exceeded our expectations. Not only do we have an experienced fire officer every night or on the holidays or on the weekends, but it has grown into a much tighter working relationship between the two fire departments. What we're working on now is ongoing training. We want to do more sets and reps of incident management training with our people that are going to be sitting in the seat. That along with department training. We want to start to craft, as an example, quarterly training where a core of a company and North Liberty Fire Company will meet on the fringe area of the communities and do some hose drills or something like that. So, it's been very interesting, super positive, and the results are much more than we ever expected them to be.