Title: North Liberty City Council Special Session on January 20, 2026
Published: 2026-01-21 14:07:59
Video ID: 2Hi6hJoaFjU

Good evening everyone. Tonight is Tuesday, January 20th, 2026 and this is the special session of the North City Council to discuss our budget. And Tracy, could I take could we take a roll call, please? >> For here, Libel >> here, >> Park >> here, >> Smith >> here, >> here. Thank you all for being here. Item three is approval of the agenda. It is in front of you. Could I just have a motion for approval? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Thanks, Brian. Thanks, Brent. Are there any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed. Approval agenda has been approved. Ryan, let's move on to general item four, which our general fund. I'm going to turn the discussion over to you. >> Okay, great. I uh thank you uh everyone for coming in early tonight. Uh I want to just walk through [clears throat] the process very quickly. It will um it's very similar to what uh you've experienced in previous years. uh uh as we talk through uh the f the proposed FY27 budget and tonight we're focusing really on the operational side of things and that's why the room is full with our management team uh who who has been uh this group's been working on uh this budget probably since uh September in some cases. So, uh, I think we're all relieved to be at this point and, uh, we'll be even more relieved, uh, at the end of January when hopefully we have this process put to bed for another year. So, tonight I will go through each of these categories. Uh, Russ is actually going to be Russ is out there leading the the screen or navigating the screen in front of you. So, I'll um look to him when I want him to change a slide. Uh and uh what I would ask is that we as we after we [clears throat] get through each category then will be an opportunity for the city council to ask questions to me or uh ask for uh further uh clarification from one of our management team members. So with that, let's we're going to jump right into uh general fund revenues and Russ I think that's page uh 10 on here if I'm not mistaken. Maybe it's a little further in, but it Yeah. >> Right. There we go. Thank you. So, as I noted in the memo, I've we've put little comments on areas that um uh areas of significance, but I I do want to uh touch on a few other things. And you know, revenues, general fund revenues in particular, probably what gives me the most anxiety uh each year as we wait for the tax valuations uh from uh the county and they have to submit those to us uh by January 1 and and um they did that this year and what we saw uh from a valuation standpoint is about a five and a quarter% increase in value. That means most most of that would be through growth. uh we actually saw a roll back this year on residential property drop or dip about 2.9%. So to have that come in at 5 and a quarter uh was I I was surprised to see it that high uh a bit relieved although there was still some some work to do and [clears throat] we'll get into that here in a bit. Now, you might think because we saw our valuations go up five and a quarter percent, we'd see revenue grow go up as much. And that's just not the case uh with the new tax law, fairly new tax law, now approved in 23. Uh uh and I mentioned this in the text part of the packet, the memo part, but the actual revenue growth on what we used to call our 810 levy uh is 3.22%. uh so a couple percent uh less than our actual valuation growth. And again, that's uh that's a direct result of the law that ratcheting back uh uh the city's ability to to uh to generate revenue. A couple other things I would note and a more positive note in the general fund revenues is, you know, it's not all about property taxes. Although you can see uh on one of the graphs in here, it makes up a big percentage of the general fund. We continue uh as you all know and and see every time we meet, we continue to see growth and as a result, we see continue to see permitting fees uh um come in at a solid pace. Uh we also uh have a very uh very well-used community center uh that generates various fees and charges for uh all the programming and uh activities that are hosted there. So those fees for charges uh are are steady as well. And then over the last couple years, um, we've started, um, uh, I guess I'd use the term negotiating with banks on where we're putting our money so that we're leveraging the best interest rate we can, uh, for the cash that we have on hand. And so we've seen uh, interest income increase uh, over the last couple years as well. And then the last thing I would note here is that from an uh the safer grant which you can see a little further down on this um spreadsheet here. Uh this is the first year where we're seeing a significant decline in those funds and that if you recall we we were approved [sighs] funds three years ago already to fund three full-time firefighters and and so those are going away. We knew that was coming and and tried to prepare for that. Uh the last thing I would say about revenues is that I mentioned the um state uh the state law change. Russ, can you go forward a page? I think >> other way. >> Other way. >> Uh why don't you go one more page? Right here. I think this gives you a good snapshot. And this was included in in the memo as well. But you can see in FY27 [clears throat] um we would have had the ability to generate an extra $800,000 had that um had that uh had that law not been in place. Now, does that mean we would have? Probably not. But that the ability would have been there. And I think you're just going to continue to see this exacerbate. And as we as property tax reform uh is talked about at the state level, uh I I think many of us around this table and out there are nervous about what's to come. So again, just a snapshot there of of uh how that impacts our general fund. Russ, if you want to go back to the general fund revenues and I would ask at this time if there are any questions from the group on the on the revenue side of things. Ryan, did I hear you say that the residential growth went down? >> The roll back? >> Oh. Oh, it was the roll back. Okay. Yes. >> So, what So, in theory though, yes, that would drive residential growth down. >> And so, I'll get to this a little bit later, but on the very last page of the packet, you can see uh what that uh roll back does to residential property. It will reduce burdens this year. Yeah. [snorts] >> Any questions for Ryan on this so far? >> Mayor, uh, just one. What, remind me, Ryan, when was the last time we did any increases on permits or considered increases on building permits and print reviews and plan reviews >> recently? >> Yeah. Uh, we have not Well, Russ, do you do you have a recollection here? I'm going to speak out. I don't but we are planning on looking reevaluating those for [clears throat] >> Okay. And I believe I was if I remember correctly, aren't the building permit fees established by the >> in the building code? >> Yeah, in the building code itself. Do you do you happen to recall? I don't mean to put you on the spot, but [clears throat] Okay. All right. Well, one of the things we'll talk about is the fact that our building and planning departments have combined. And so Russ is is looking at a lot of things that maybe haven't been looked at in a while. And it sounds like that will be one of them. >> Yeah, I think Mayor I think that's a a place that pending legislation um a place that we really need to look just for, you know, revenue generation is is there. And if it's been a while, you know, look at look at those increases. We're we're a growing city. Building permits uh remain high. Um, we have interest in wanting to to build here and grow here and and we want to uh use that as as a revenue generator. >> Well, if there are no other questions, and I don't mean to get >> too quick with the pages, but Russ, let's go back to I think it'd be really the first page of the the model public safety. Oh, one more. >> Thank you. So, we're going to start tonight by talking about public safety. And I'll get through each one of these categories and then uh offer the council an opportunity to to ask questions or um uh speak on on any of these. So, you can see actually our police department budget is proposed to go down just slightly. Uh the staffing levels are remaining the same and as we have a younger department, uh they're newer in the pay scale. So that's why you're seeing uh that number go down a bit. I do think it's worth noting it doesn't really have a budget impact as you can see here. But uh the chief has been working with Johnson County and Coralville. We've been working with uh one a single mental health liaison that splits her time between the three uh three organizations. uh the chief uh the sheriff has uh come across some state funding uh that will allow us to bring in uh another liaison for the same price that we're paying now for for just the one. So uh we're happy about that. We can um we it's you know when you have uh just the one liaison or the one person who is dedicated towards mental health that person can't be here around the clock. So, it gives us a few more hours during the day to have that service available. Uh, I would note uh we're um replacing a couple squad cars and you'll see we replaced a couple last year and we'll continue to to replace uh in the future years and uh the chief can talk a little bit more about this, but what we've done recently is um allowed our cars to um accumulate more miles before trading them in. that seems to have been working uh okay for the time being. So, we'll continue to do that. So, when when it's time though, when these cars uh hit that threshold, it's it's time I just sat in a meeting today and they were they were talking about a transmission problem on one that we're getting ready to get rid of in July uh that we might just let it sit there for the rest of the year until we're ready uh to get rid of it. So, uh, we try to really use these vehicles until, uh, until there's no serviceable, uh, well, until the maintenance fees really become an issue. Uh, I would, um, just move on here, uh, and I, I won't I'm not going to spend a lot of time on these areas that really haven't changed much. Uh, like emergency management is an example. And if you if you want to talk further about that outside of this this meeting, we certainly can. Uh but fire is where you're going to see the biggest change in public safety or biggest proposed change. Uh and here what we're trying to do is uh continue to attack that staffing plan uh uh to get that that station fully staffed. I tried to uh outline uh what the proposed plan is in the memo, but essentially we're uh we are suggesting to add two more full-time firefighters that uh that give us two that give us three shifts of two people fully staffed. Uh and then the chief can use ideally we have three on each shift. And so the chief then can use part-time and paid per call folks to to fill in that gap. So that's what you're seeing there is the sign the most significant increase. Uh we always note that we are we replace a certain [clears throat] amount of turnout gear each year and so that's what you're seeing in the capital outlay. We we've done that annually now for quite some time. Moving on to building safety. Uh I would note that you'll see a decrease in this budget as well. Uh we're uh uh as I mentioned we merge departments and and Russ is taking the helm of of what we're now calling the PBD [clears throat] uh the planning building and development department and um uh we we uh we will continue to look for for ideas there to um be more efficient and um we we have some ideas that we're kicking around right now in terms of um adjusting uh uh not not so much adjusting staffing levels, but adjusting where people are at. So, um more to come on that, but uh I think it's it's been uh the [clears throat] transition has has went uh I think really well, especially considering uh Tom Palmer had so many years of institutional knowledge and so uh he was certainly uh an asset and and um uh Russ is is doing a nice job um taking over. I would note, and we'll talk about this a little bit, they're gonna there are a few p uh purchases, one-time purchases that we're proposing to uh to use FY25 surplus funds with. And I I got into some detail that in the memo uh in the um in the building department, we do need to pick up an inspector vehicle. And so we're looking at uh we'll be proposing using th a small amount of surplus funds uh for that purchase. And then lastly is animal control and and that budget staying pretty steady uh for FY27. So questions on public safety. >> Yeah, I have one. Uh right now the mental health liaison we have one that we share the cost with the county >> and Corville >> and Corville and then our new one is that fully paid for by the grant. >> Go ahead. >> Um no it'll be shared between the grant Corville and Johnson County and North Liberty. So it's kind of that fourth um everybody pays a quarter of it for that person but it's the same cost that we're currently paying for our new for our current mental health leaison. >> So the grant is basically like a fourth >> entity that's sharing >> and when we originally budgeted for this we did not have the grant available so we budgeted for the full salary between the three entities and now the grant came in so really we're kind of getting two for the price of one with the money that we already budgeted for this mental health leaison. >> So the grant's really helping Chief, what's the percentage breakdown of usage of that liaison, would you say? >> Um, it's a great question. It just varies. Uh, so every month it's a little bit different. And of course, she'll uh Kiana will create a report for us so that we can see what what her use is. The thing that we're having a hard time tracking is the follow-up because the majority of it is it is she's in the office. It might get called that she's at Johnson County and she'll just follow up on the phone, but really it should probably be counted towards North Liberty because she's dealing with a North Liberty resident. So we are just c you know sharing those those resources across. We can track our referrals to her and then she can keep track of her time when she's dealing with those individuals on the back end for the follow-up. >> Do do you feel like what we're paying we're we're getting our money's worth and are we pay are are we sharing that cost equally do you believe for what we're what we're using? >> I believe we are. Uh we have a lot of issues and concerns that are happening in North Liberty and again some months are different than than others. And so while Corville might be high one month and we might be a little bit low, we're going to catch up on the back end. So it it does seem to be a pretty cost-effective sharing for this resource between the three entities. >> Are we seeing some deferrals out of um out of lockup with these programs? >> Um not necessarily the lockup. It's usually going to be the the trips that are going to the me the hospital um um and or guidelink. So we generally are are seeing that more on on the the people that need to go to the lockup need to go to the lockup. there's no place else for them. So, uh it has been the the guide link and or uh trips to the ER. >> Okay. >> Can you touch on the uh the software to support internal and external engagement? >> Yeah. So, actually it's launched today and it's called power engage. And so, basically what it is is anytime that somebody calls dispatch and there's a cell phone number that's attached to it, you'll get an automatic response uh depending on what type of call it is about the officer's response. If there's a case number that's created, you'll also get that in a text message. If there's any safety message, like if there's a car crash and you're reporting that crash, they'll ask you if you're safe. Um, can you move your vehicle off the road? There's just some safety messagings with that. 4 hours after any event that we tag that we want information on, you can actually provide feedback to the officers. As we move forward in this program, um, it'll, uh, account for incident management. So, like a case report, if evidence is sent to DCI, they'll get a notification that the evidence has been sent off. they'll get notification that evidence has been brought back. So, it's just a better communication tool through text messaging uh about keeping up with their with their cases. Or if we're going to close a case, maybe 30 days later, we'll ask them if there's any additional information that they want to add to the report. They might think of something, oh, I I I forgot this and they didn't notify the officers. Then it's just uh prompting information sharing between both entities. And they can also pro provide feedback to officers, which we're going to share with our staff um for the positive feedback to again help increase morale. That's just one piece. There's a second component that we're looking at and it's called power of vitals. Um, basically what it is, it's a mental health services for law enforcement. Uh, so if they're responding to uh, significant car crashes, deaths, baby deaths, uh, CPR in progress, any of those things that are high anxiety for officers, it'll flag the supervisor to know, hey, do a mental health follow-up on this officer, make sure they're doing okay. >> So, that's an addition to what we already have and use. >> Um, this is brand brand new. We're uh we just started today with the power engage and we're going to keep adding these additional software packages to our to our piece. Um we currently are providers for our our scheduling software and this is one other piece that we've been looking at for a couple years. We just had the money now that we could start implementing this program. And then a third one that is also included in here is a public information piece about uh it's called Next Request. Um and so it's really about handling our records when they're coming in, where they're tracking, if they're going to legal, wherever they're going throughout the city if needed. So those are the software pieces that we're looking into to try to help us keep track of what's coming in and going out. >> Thank you. Very cool. >> So just as a on the police cars and when you're re re uh uh getting new squad cars, how much of that do you think is really moving the electronics and adding all that stuff in there because I think that's really forgot >> the majority of it. So the cost of the equipment in the vehicle is as much as the vehicle. Um really really dis disappointing but and then they make the cars just like they do any anything else. Nothing is adaptable. So, you know, new cage can't go from a Dodge to a Ford or even a new Dodge. Uh, so they just change it every single time. So, we have to buy new every time. We're about four years on our cars now, and we bumped it up to 120,000 mi. Um, yeah, it is it's just heartening, but it's it's we just have to do it. We want them safe and operating effectively. >> What happens to the cars that are being retired? Do they go to other law enforcement or are they stripped down? And and >> they're completely stripped down. We want to make sure North Liberty Police, all of that is taken off of it. So they are they are completely stripped. They'll auction them off. Some people will buy them. Um they're not worth a ton of money, but I mean these these cars are are are they sit out there in idle. They're used hard. So but people still buy them. They still go to an auction house. We just strip them down so they can't be traced back to North Police Department. >> Any other questions? >> Thanks, Chief. >> Thank you. >> Any other public safety questions? Ryan on the fire side. Uh Chief, you want to So I' I've seen 24 grand on your turnout gear. What's your replacement schedule and how does that get us into NFPA compliancy with your numbers? >> Yeah, all of our uh gear goes out after 10 years. Uh helmets, boots, turnout coats, pants. >> So we don't have any outside of NFPA gear any we do have some in the building. Uh we typically will put brand new people in that gear. Uh obviously they're not going into IDLH environments, but at least they can crawl around and tear that stuff up before we get them new gear. >> So 24 grand is how many sets? What's that gear? >> Boy, we're just under four grand per uh coat and pant right now. >> Okay. >> And so another 350 for helmets and 400 for boots. So you're talking right around [clears throat] $5,000 per set. Uh largely we use that uh for a lot of our part- timerrs. uh our safer grant that Chief Smoke wrote still um takes care of a lot of our brand new paper call personnel uh to the tune of 30 [snorts] $30,000 a year in gear. Uh so obviously with that uh we find success with keeping this amount at 24,000 um just because we don't go through as many part- timerrs as we do paper call. >> For the nonfire guy here, what what exactly is turnout gear? Uh, it's the structural firefighting suit that we wear. Uh, helmet, coat, pants, boots, gloves, >> nox. >> So, to drill down on that a little bit, is it a is replacement recommended on a schedule or is and is that based on years that it's since it was purchased or is it hours that it's been >> worn? Years since the day you purchased. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Uh and then with your two new FTEEs, um just [clears throat] remind our council what uh what coverage that's going to gain. >> Absolutely. >> And how that does or does not um decrease our turnout times and our response times right now. >> Yeah. Um as Ryan indicated, uh we have a goal of putting three people in the fire station 24/7 uh so we can respond to any incident. Uh right now with uh the four operational full-timers, we have two on one shift, one on each of the other two shifts. Uh so adding two full-time will bring each shift up to two full-time people. Um [clears throat] obviously the ask here is predicated on the lack of availability that we're we're seeing with our part- timerrs and our paper call folks. Uh wonderful people. Uh we've great part- timerrs, great paper call. Uh but obviously we're not their priority in their life. They have full-time jobs. They have families. Uh so their availability isn't always that great. Right now we're asking them to uh in order to realize 24/7 uh with three people we're asking them to uh staff 23 and 12hour shifts per week. Um and with 18 part- timerrs that's very difficult. Uh a lot of them like to do one a week. Um as you can imagine uh we have to uh overstaff then when we can't get part time in [clears throat and cough] with our paid per call folks and we do have a stipen program for them. Um however um it's uh it's it's difficult because not only uh are we not realizing uh their availability. In other words, we uh I think just this last month we had 12 or 13 12-hour shifts that went unfilled. And if you look back 6 months, it's anywhere from 8 to 18 shifts a month that go unfilled just because they don't have availability. Um, so then we'll try to backfill them with our our paid per call folks. And what we're finding is that we're overusing our stipen money. Um, are we do have a safer grant that allows us to nominally pay our volunteers. Um, but we are ahead of the curve on that stipen money. Uh, just because we're trying to get some of those gaps covered in the hopes that the full-timers are coming. Um, obviously [clears throat] we can adjust that up and down. Uh but um but yeah, that's that's the the the correction that we're trying to make is that lack of availability of part-time. Um you know, just today we had a gentleman call in because he had he got overtime on his full-time job and so we had to quickly try to backfill his position. Uh and that happens quite routinely, unfortunately. Um, and with respect to, um, turnout time, our ability to put three people in the fire station, uh, greatly enhances that turnout time. Right now, there are a number of times that we still have calls when we only have two people in the station and they have to wait for a third. Uh, whether that's administrative staff, whether that's come somebody coming from four blocks away because they live South Front Street. Uh, you know, there's a variety of reasons for that. Uh, but putting three people in the fire station allows us to greatly um realize success with our our turnout goals. >> I hope I answered your question. >> Are you rolling medicals with just two? >> We are. So when you >> not not all the time um we we are when we have to. Um there are days as well though that um if we have two um if we have four people in the station, we may send two on a medical call. uh largely because it's not that far away and if they have to beat feedback to the station they can. Um but we also know that we have reinforcements in the building such as when we have administrative staff in the building that we can roll an engine. So we do play that shell game a little bit um but I think we do it in a very calculated successful way. >> Thank you. >> So with a new station a better amenities do you think that'll help recruiting? >> I do. I do. Um I I have no way to uh quantitatively demonstrate that. Um but you know, youngsters that you know, young 20-year-olds um that come into the fire station as we give tours and things like that in order to try to recruit them and get them to to join up. Um I'm I'm pretty sure that's going to play a role. I I know that other departments have anecdotally uh indicated to us that once they open the door of their new fire station, they had people, you know, three or four people knock on the door the next month want to join. Now, you know, I I don't I don't know. I I I just know um believe that that will help quite a bit. How can it not, right? >> Yeah. So So, well, we will work to get it done. [laughter] I appreciate that. Any other questions for Chief Weise up here? >> Thank you, sir. >> Thank you. >> Anything else for public safety? >> Just curious, animal control or how busy are we? >> Well, I would defer to Chief or Michael on that. Uh they they kind of uh operate that area together. um animal control since we've uh started that position. Of course, the calls for service have just been increasing. So, it seems like about 60 a month. That's a pretty good number that uh he's responding to. We're doing follow-ups or doing all of those. So, it's quite a bit. >> Wow. 60 >> 60 calls for service that will either he's responding to a call or he's following up on a on an initi on a call that he's transporting an animal or doing whatever he needs to do with. It's pretty often. >> All right. Thanks, Okay, we will move on to public works. [clears throat] Clarify this is public works within the general fund. So, you'll see we don't have anything in roads, bridges, and sidewalks. That's all that's all funded [clears throat] through road use tax, which we'll be talking about a little bit later. Uh we do fund crossing guards uh in this section, and you can see there's a nominal uh change there. That's just uh uh to pay those crossing guards uh during the school year. Solid waste is uh really an in andout. You're you're seeing that two million there uh we collect on behalf of the solid waste company. It goes out then back to them uh uh to pay for the garbage services of our residents. Lastly is the transit budget and we're proposing to keep this the same this year as we explore alternatives for the fixed route service that will be ending uh June 30. Uh we uh we will be in in fact I don't think Ang's here but she's working on an RFP now uh that will be going out in February uh and we'll be soliciting uh requests for for folks who can or companies that that can help us uh supplement the the big blue bus service that will be going away. So, for now, we uh we feel comfortable keeping this line item where it's at uh and then seeing what the future holds as we get into those RFPs. Public works is always a little easier one. Any questions on that? Not we'll move forward with to health and social services. And this one, this particular year is is uh relatively easy as well because you might recall we funded uh we're on a two-year cycle for funding uh these grant applications. Uh we did it in FY26. So in FY27 the uh allocations remain the same. I will stop me if if you want. We're going to keep rolling ahead here. >> Do we intend I'm sorry. Do we intend to um is there a possibility that other organizations may uh ask for more in the second year or was there a contingency plan um regionwide um through this process to allow for that to happen? Well, I I'll take this and if Tracy wants to jump in, she can. I I happen to sit on the United Way board uh in what I've learned uh throughout my time there is that the organizations who are already involved uh well who who had applied through Coralville, I would say Johnson County prior to us getting uh getting on that uh on that system really understand that it's a two-year deal. And so unless it's a dire emergency, you know, and we saw some of that this year with federal funds being cut, um they they know this is what they get. So we don't anticipate it, but certainly something could pop up where and their first step is usually the United Way to say, "Hey, how can we what can how can you help us?" And then they bring in their partners and and cities and and counties to see if there's anything we can do. So, in that way, if there is a request like that, how would we attempt to cover it if it weren't inside of this budget already? >> Yeah, we'd have to either amend the budget uh at that time or uh you know, look for another revenue source depending on what that request is. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> So, that's a that's a um a healthier way to approach it if it happens instead of trying to guess and set aside dollars and then it does and then it doesn't happen. >> We think so. Okay. And and of course, we're hoping that the organization in need is not just looking at the cities either, that they're looking at other entities to help whatever the situation might be. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> Okay. We'll move on to culture and recreation. [clears throat] Uh this, bear with me here. This might be a little bit of a a lengthy one, but we'll we'll start off uh with the library budget. here. Uh we're uh we're looking at uh adding 10 hours a week of part-time help into this budget. Uh the library uh employees uh play an important role in a lot of our um uh city slate events. And so this uh by bringing on some additional part-time hours, it allows our our full-timers to be a little more flexible in helping with with those uh very popular events. And then just some additional um operating uh increases uh in janitorial supplies and services. You'll see the same thing in city hall uh as we um as we uh continue to work with the the same uh janitorial company uh and then also some additional uh IT hardware uh to to um increase the wireless uh availability at at the library. uh parks, buildings, and grounds. Uh uh no new staffing uh is proposed this year really. Um the the one thing I wanted to note here, a couple things is we have $50,000 in there uh for a facility, our new facility manager truck. You might remember we brought him on this person on last year and didn't didn't really have a a way to operate. So, he's using one of the I think that Yeah, the police department vehicle that I think's been it's got to be close to 18 years old, that truck. But, uh uh it's working for now, but uh we need to we need to uh get him in something else. And then I noted this in my memo, but you know over the past few years uh when we were looking for ways to kind of push and pull this general fund budget, I Guy would always get a call from me and I appreciated that he answered because I'm sure he knew what I wanted to talk to him about and that was looking at scaling back an equipment purchase here or there. Well, I would say that it's getting close to catching up with us and so we need to uh put some money back into uh some parks equipment and so we're proposing to pull $175,000 from the FY25 uh surplus to help fund uh various pieces of equipment that I have listed in in the document. Uh, and I'd just remind folks, not that you need reminded because you you you make comments on it regularly, but uh, we have some exceptional looking parks and roundabouts and and medians and properties and, uh, it takes an investment to make that happen. And so, we're just we're trying to to to continue to provide that uh, quality service. Uh, moving on to recreation. And again, the the big the bigger piece here is replacing a BASP van. Um, this is number two. We're on a 4-year um cycle here. We have four of these vans uh and uh this is this year two of four uh that we want to to get in here and and um uh replace uh the dated vans. Um there's no change in the community center operating budget. I would note though, and we'll talk a little bit [clears throat] more about this at the next meeting, uh just about uh maintenance funding for the community center. And uh I believe I have the the um you don't need to you don't need to switch to this Russ, but I uh this document was in here for more of a reference for you folks and we'll talk about it more next meeting, but we do have a community center capital fund that lists out a bunch of the projects andor the annual um designation of funds just to to be sure we have uh some money available in case uh something happens at that facility. You've heard us talk about this. It's 30 years old. It's a great facility, but it it does it takes a little bit more money to operate at this point. So, uh so while that budget line item remains flat, uh we will be uh talking a little bit about putting some money aside for for other projects next at our meeting next week. Cemetery budget. We have an agreement with the uh township trustees and we fund uh we help fund uh mowing out at the cemetery. That's really what this is. You'll you'll notice in FY25 um there was no cost. Their their billing uh sometimes is a little slow. So there'll be a double cost in in FY26. Uh uh and we you know we their volunteers as well. So we just roll with the punches there. Turns [clears throat] out to be about $40,000 a year. And then lastly in the aquatic center um uh really no no significant changes. we continue to, you know, we have to pay a premium dollar for lifeguards. Uh it's it that is just a a job market that uh is really difficult right now. And and um we've heard of in smaller communities pools closing because they don't have the lifeguards. So, um Shelley and her team have done a really nice job. Ashley uh is our aquatic supervisor done a great job of uh recruiting and retaining lifeguards. uh so that we can have um access to that swimming pool in the summer. So that is culture and recreation questions. So guy, how how long are those mowers lasting? How many seasons? >> The three that we're replacing, two of them are uh 15 models and another one is the 19. >> Yeah. So you you've done a good job maintaining them, but yeah, that they wear out. Yeah. So >> yeah, after so many hours, they tend to wear out a little. >> I'm I'm always surprised when I see you driving around in that old or older Toyota truck. >> Nissan. >> Nissan. >> Nissan. >> You should have been here when he bought it. Yeah. [laughter] >> Yeah. How how I mean I've the last I've been doing this a couple years and I've expected to see you know a new vehicle in there somewhere. How >> y >> how long can that last? And you know I guess I would like to see you you be able to get a newer truck and maybe the the old Toyota could go you know no offense but to the building inspector or you know the facilities manager. And I just think, you know, our culture and recreation, you guys do such a good job. I just uh that's what I would like to see or talk about. >> Oh, that truck I have a little sentimental value with that truck. [laughter] >> I think I do too, guy. >> It's got history. >> Yeah, it's got some history. >> That it is a 2007. >> The 2007, correct? >> Yeah. >> And I think to your point about reusing equipment, we do >> [clears throat] >> uh try to do that. And so I think Shelley can speak to that a little bit. We have the we have an old an old Jeep. I mean, it's Jeep Liberty. It's It's actually in pretty bad shape. I saw it the other day, but that got passed down from building inspection. So, we do try to get as as much out of these vehicles as we can without it turning into a, you know, a maintenance nightmare. So, boink boink taken. >> I think you like the CD player in it the best. Oh, sorry. The CD player that's player. Yeah, >> the leather seats. >> Leather seats. >> Leather seats. Yeah. >> Go there, Trace. There are no leather seats in that vehicle. Okay. [laughter] >> Just a question for me, guy. It might be more HR related. Just looking at some of the labor. We've got call outs for adding new firefighters for >> um fire and even, you know, the part-time work for the library. Hey, we're adding 10 hours here. Just looking at a percentage-wise of the labor cost. Um it's rather Is that just right sizing wages? Is we're not adding staff. Can you just maybe explain that cost increase a little bit from a percentage standpoint? It just looks like it's considerable. >> Oh, I can probably take that. >> Thank you. I just clarity to the title changes. >> Yeah, more than likely. >> Yeah. So, in addition to I mean we have 10 full-timers that will all see an increase. And then we have um uh I think we have $138,000 in there for part-time work, too. So we we we um bumped that up just a little bit just to not necessarily adding new people but um getting in line with kind of what it's looking like this year. >> Yeah. No, I remember the the exercise we did not too long ago looking at all the wages. So that's why I was just wondering. >> But the other issue here is we we did um reclassify a couple longer term employees. >> That's perfectly acceptable. I just wanted some understanding. Thank you. Anything else for guy? What? >> So, >> just to clarify, you're going to drive it till the wheels fall off [laughter] >> and then what though? Serious question. >> Well, if I can make it to retirement with it, that'd be my second truck that I've driven here. >> Guy, isn't that that one's on the list, isn't it? >> Yes. I'm just trying to >> Okay. Yeah, [laughter] >> it was it was on the list this year, but it's [clears throat] one that we had to cut. So, or needed to cut. Not had to cut. needed to cut. >> So, >> it's okay. >> They talk about it. This is why this is how they manage this budget. So, well, >> I'm not complaining. >> You wouldn't. So, I'm complaining for it. >> You're advocating. [laughter] Yeah. >> So, Ryan, uh, I I I guess I was a little surprised not to see at least maybe a line item or discussion on as we look to rebuild a fire station, there's the conversation about guy needing more space, there's the conversation about streets needing more and does that combined need also work into relocating fire apparatus during the rebuild. Why are we not seeing money in this FY budget for some expansion that way? We will be talking about that next week at the when we talk about the capital projects. Okay. So >> and in and we will be talking about it but in in theory we might we might be asking you to start that earlier than Okay. >> FY27. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> And storing it at your house. [clears throat] >> Anything else for Ryan? I'm not seeing it here, but there I if I'm not mistaken, I saw a $200,000 grant for the community center. >> Uh $200,000 um transfer to Centennial Center. >> Did I? >> He he might have been talking about the restroom. >> That's Yeah, we will talk about that. Again, that's a capital project. We'll talk about that a little bit next week as well. Um the idea there though is that and um Jenny and I have talked about this at length, but the idea there is a project is contingent on on grant funding. So they got a real uh I shouldn't say real small was a nice size $10,000 grant to do some some planning. Uh uh but that'll be contingent that project will be contingent on future grant funding. But again, we'll talk more about that when we when we talk about the capital project piece, >> but that would be for the community center, not the Centennial Center. Is that right? >> Right. There is $200,000 related to the community center, but we'll talk about that in a little bit. >> Got it. >> Okay, we'll move on to uh community and economic development. Uh our economic development budget remains steady. Uh that is because most of these actually I think all of these uh requests for example to greater IC or to UNESCO or to the um um EDC are multi-year asks. So they they'll they were in the middle of a a three or five year pledge for all these folks. So those those numbers stay consistent. Uh planning and zoning budget uh remains relatively steady as you can see. uh and community relations. You're seeing a a big change here, a big decrease here because we're uh changing up at least this year the way we uh supplement the HY hi Centennial Center operating budget. And um we'll we will I can talk about that in just a minute. But before I do, I I would ask if there are any questions on this on this particular page. Mayor, I was like a recap on UNESCO and what they're doing for us. You know, we've we've invested $50,000 over the last five years. What What is that getting North Liberty? I think that's always a good reminder. We have um what I'll do is ask John Kenyon to come in and speak to the group. We have Tracy just emailed me today about I think think Iowa City wanting to do an annual report. Greater ICU want to do an annual report. We usually hold them off until after our budgets are after this process is done. So, uh, late February, March, early April, we'll look to see if those guys can come in. >> Sounds good. Let's uh let's jump. Russ, if you want to jump to uh it's three or four or five pages up here. The Hi Center. Um, yes. Thank you. And just a quick note on that since we just did talk about um community relations. So what we're proposing to do here, we're still obviously early >> [clears throat] >> uh in this process being open to less than a year, kind of feel in our way for how many events we can uh we have the capacity from a staffing perspective to to manage in a year. Um, so what we're proposing is a a $200,000 transfer from the FY25 surplus uh to help uh to help fund the Centennial Center this year. Uh well, >> Russ, >> you all right there, Russ? >> Russ think you might. >> Thank you. Uh and uh Okay. So, sorry I lost my train of thought there. >> We were concerned for Russ there. >> Yeah, I was. [laughter] >> Uh so, the $200,000 really just helps supplement the costs of this facility. And like I said, we're we're still feeling our way out here. Uh, in addition, we're proposing to add a part-time uh what we're calling event lead uh to this budget uh just to give our um uh our uh planning coordinator uh Angela uh a little uh just some assistance because uh things are are really kind of heating up there and and what we've quickly found is one person can't do it all. So, uh, that's what we're we're proposing, uh, in this, uh, uh, in this particular budget here. And [clears throat] Nick is here and can answer any questions you have about the IV center if you if you have any. If not, we'll bounce back to general government. Russ is back with us here. [laughter] >> Ryan Ryan, I I actually do want to go back. I I I we can't let Nick off that easy. >> Okay. Uh so what what's what's kind of the goals? We are adding staff. We got one full-time, one halftime. Is is there are we [snorts] forecasting the ability for this to be, you know, a pay even or ahead uh for for the FTE costs? Are we going to be able to add staff with some of those projections of [cough] what we're seeing coming in earlier? Kind of what's our plan there? >> Yeah. So, I think uh when I presented the budget, of course, Ryan makes that sucking sound with his uh mouth [laughter] uh and does this head rub thing. Uh again, we we opened in October. Our goal is to to break even. Okay. >> Um and we're trying and uh our concern of course is as we project numbers on this facility where we have a very short track record is we [clears throat] want to be super conservative. Um but we also know that weekends are going to be our our big takehomes, right? those are the those are the days we've got are high rates, higher rates. Um and so in order to do that, we know that we need to make sure that Angela's got she's not working every weekend. Um as a mom with young kids, that's just that's not going to work for us. So this our our current goal is has been to have one dark weekend a month and we're seeing right. But we also know that there's revenue to be had during wedding season, right? And that's going to compete with our amphitheater. Um, we're still working through exactly how um, can I use this word in polite company? The house nut from our shows. Um, so, right, if when we do a show with the uh, with the Inglert, um, that will pay back into, right, that's not just a free of charge thing that will there will be money that comes back into that. So, our goal is to to break even um here um over time or at least continue to reduce that um that >> we have the ability to adjust those rates as we have additional needs or we see more use of the facility. >> We do. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And we and as as you folks have talked about, we we're working really hard to make sure that we're both accessible but also right people are paying a fair rate. >> Yeah. And I I I shared this with Ryan. I shared at a couple of uh other board meetings uh this this last month. I I've I've already heard that um people with that feedback of how affordable it is to citizens that are wanting to use it for uh weddings, graduations. So that that price point that you guys spent a lot of time researching and figuring out seems to be hitting well and people are going to use it a lot because it's accessible. So I really really appreciate that. >> Yeah. And so having that that permanent part-time position that'll reduce right now we have three part-time folks that sort of rotate in to help with some of these events. We're looking for somebody with a little bit more ability to sort of lead and take some of those bigger pieces off of Angela. So permanent parttime there. Um that we also hope will give her some more capacity to go out and do sales. She did sales for Riverside before she was a stay at home mom and before she came here. So she's got the ability to do that too. Um, I know she did book two things today, including a $3,000 booking um for for April. So, things are going well. >> Nice. >> Thanks for letting me go back. >> Yeah. [snorts] Okay, we'll move on to general government. Uh, couple notes here on this page. Of course, uh we approved the uh updated uh wages for mayor and council in October. So that goes uh we and we actually put um increased the budget in FY26 to accommodate for some of that and have and just needed to now that it'll be a full year bump it up a little bit more. Uh from the administrative side, uh what uh we're one of the bigger changes on the personnel services is that our we hired the um finance coordinator last year midyear. That was a budgeted mid-year position. So now it's a full year. So we had to make that adjustment. uh we're seeing uh uh costs for publication um uh as well as as we talked about earlier janitorial contract increasing um and so we just we need to uh update those line items to to account for those things uh I would moving on the only other note I would make here mo most everything remains relatively the same obviously there's not an election this year so we don't have to to budget for that uh the information technology line item. One of the things we're we're doing in an attempt to uh better track these expenses instead of pulling some of these from each department uh as they happen. We're going to have one line item for them. So, in all of these budgets, we we've reduced their IT needs a by a little bit, knowing that uh the expenses will be tracked here. Uh and we can then uh just better have a better idea of of um where our IT expenses are are at. So, that's what we have for general government. Questions? Uh only question on the IT side is on security of IT systems. Um a lot more cyber attack stuff happening and there's a lot of talk about that. What are we doing infrastructure-wise to ensure that we're ahead of that game? Well, [sighs and gasps] I'm the last person you want to ask about the technical side of things of that, but I can tell you uh I get I I do send emails to Chris, our IT director, regularly about trainings and and things from a list serve that I'm on and and I'll get a a response. Yep, we're on that or we are aware of that. I can certainly we can certainly have him come in and and talk in more detail if you'd like. But I are I believe we've given our IT team and and um uh they report to Tracy, so please step in if you disagree or have other comments, but I believe we've given them the tools uh they need. They continue to work with an outside consultant as well to make sure uh we are protected. Now, that doesn't mean we're never going to get hit. The risk is always there. But I would say year over year when you look at us every year we're getting better. If you want more technical jazzy words, I'm going to have to bring Chris in to >> No, I just want to make sure that that >> we're we're testing things internally. Um staff are tested regularly >> whether they know it or not. Um all of our systems are updated and kept way up to date. We partner with the state for a lot of our cyber security. Okay, great. >> Um have an have access to a lot of free or lowcost programs um in partnership with the state on that. We Chris stays continuing education is important. He and Hoy are always learning new things about what's coming down the pipeline. Unfortunately, we can't keep up with everything because [clears throat] >> that's why cyber villains are so good because they're always one step ahead of us. But we do we have a great team of two that does a lot with what the resources they have. >> Yeah. I just saw you know I've seen a small staff I'm sure there's a lot of [clears throat] daily IT needs where they're you know forced to be more reactive where they don't have that time to look ahead and have that proactive approach. And this is this is a piece where I want to make sure we're we're learning lessons from our colleague cities across the country that are that are experiencing hard. >> It's very important. Yep. >> Yeah. Just just centralizing it is a big step towards all that. So, okay, I'm going to jump into the summary. I'm two slides up, Russ, to close out the general fund. And um all that after all that at the end of the day, you can see on this summary um slide that we have a deficit in the in the FY27 budget of about 115,000. And here again, and I and I I I'm sure you um read this memo multiple times, but we talk about how we'll fund that deficit uh in that memo by using the FY25 surplus. So, we're we're actually going to spend more time on the FY25 surplus at the next meeting as well, and we're going to talk about that and our reserve policy. Uh but we just to to give you a and you've seen it in here, but we have about one point almost 1 point right at $1.6 $6 million of surplus that we can reallocate and um and still leaves us 35% of our general fund reserve which is which is 5% of of above our current ceiling. So we're sitting pretty good. Uh and I again I think that's that is a direct result of the people in front of you uh and um their ability to uh to continue to be efficient and um um smart with with public tax dollars. Uh just a couple other notes on here. You'll see the projected ending balance of the general fund in FY27 is about 8.2 million. That is true without spending down that surplus. The plan will be to spend down that surplus, leave us about 6.7 6.8 million uh which again will be right at that 35%. So we feel we feel really good uh about that number. Obviously future years and again these these are first of all they're not fine-tuned and I always tell folks we put this in here really just to give you a worst case scenario. Obviously, we're not going to bring a a budget to ane FY28 with a $1.2 million deficit. >> Thank you. >> Uh but um it just gives us kind of a starting a starting place and um you know, we'll go from there. But right now, our focus is on FY27. And from the general fund perspective, uh I feel pretty good about it. I think uh I think Tracy does as well. I don't want to speak for you, Tracy. Uh and these folks out here have have done a terrific job in uh aligning priorities and and uh being efficient. Any final questions on the general fund? I I don't have any final questions, but I will take this opportunity to say thank you uh to all of you for your efforts. I know uh budget season, budget time is not easy. It's a system of gives and takes. pushes and pulls um you know sacrifice uh investment uh and the work and the stress and the anxiety that goes into it is is now lost on me. So I just want to say thank you to all for your for your efforts and to get us to this spot where we can have somewhat uh intentional conversations about deficit and and surplus and not be wowed by a $1.2 million number, that kind of thing. So thank you all. So Ryan, the always my last question is to you because we know that there's been meetings and there's been hard discussions before they get into this room. >> Um how many FTEEs were asked for versus what was budgeted for? >> Well, >> overall in in in general [clears throat] fund we're still >> actually uh uh we were the ask was for a full-time event assistant. >> Okay. at Centennial. Okay. >> We just didn't feel we could do that. Otherwise, uh what was asked for was we we we tried to accommodate not without some push and pull obviously and um you know, Nick talked about this head rubbing. They they knew going into I mean, look, you know, they knew going into this that um asking for additional full-time employees was going to be tough. I mean, I think when we've had this conversation >> uh over the years. So, um, and again, this team is they're they just do incredible work and and do what they can with what we have and and, um, uh, you know, it's one of the things and, you know, I the call to Brian to Chief Platz on the two employees was we need to get rid of a a truck and a a what do we call that? A what was that truck? It was a respon EMS response >> an EMS response truck this year and another $30,000 somewhere in the budget something some I think it was 30,000 to fund these two people and uh for a firefighter he does pretty good math [laughter] >> so to your point though it there was a lot of push and pull >> and uh we again this this group really gets sees the big picture. >> Let's roll. >> Okay. All right. Let's jump into road use tax. Russ, I think we're a few slides ahead here. Uh, and Michael Pentecost, [clears throat] uh, is our street superintendent, as you all know. Uh, and the the budget here, the couple things I'll note, um, [clears throat] um, we have a couple smaller pieces of equipment, uh, relatively speaking, uh, that Michael's looking at upgrading or replacing, uh, a patch machine, uh, and, uh, and he can talk about that. That does street patchwork and then a small dump truck and plow. Uh you're seeing the overall budget uh reduced by almost 7%. A big piece of that uh debt 2012 or 13 for the street shop that's down there now using road use tax to pay that off. And so uh after that many years we were able to to um uh to get that paid off. And the last thing I would note on here um is that again you're seeing a lot of red in future years and obviously we're not going to let it get to that point. Uh, one of the things with the road use tax fund is every 10 years when a new census comes out, our revenues will will jump and and jump pretty significantly, assuming that our population does as well because it's we're we're given a per capita uh per capita funding uh for this uh for this account. So I I remember back and some of you who are on here, you know, in the late 1819 era, you know, things were getting a little tight then as well and we got the next census in and we're able to to recover quickly. And so that being said, we'll continue to to monitor this fund. The other thing we try to do is budget revenues very conservatively. Uh and so you can see in FY25, the actual revenues per capita was at $142. Uh this year, even though we're budgeted at $140, it's looking like it's going to come in around $143. So I tried to give you a few examples in the memo. So in FY25, we actually budgeted forund was over $100,000 deficit in the fund. Uh but we ended up with a $65,000 surplus. So that's a combination of Michael managing his budget very well and additional revenues uh coming in. So again, I I I don't want you to fear uh these red numbers. We won't let it get there. It's just giving you an idea of of um you know, starting point for for down the road. So I'll leave it at that and and uh uh if there are any questions, please let us know. So this would be to add an an additional patch machine or how do we >> how do we manage patching the roads currently? >> Uh this particular machine is uh it's a crack seal machine. So it' be replacement of a 2010 unit uh year 2010. Got it. >> That answer your question, Paul? It >> sure did. >> All right, great. How long does it take to get a dump truck, do you think? Are they still pretty tight for >> So, it's been, I believe, a year and a half since we've last gotten one. So, at that time, there were about 18 months out. Um, we don't have any. This is a smaller unit. This is a smaller truck, so it shouldn't be near the problem that we would see on a larger unit. I think we're good, Michael. Thank you. >> Thank you. >> Okay, we will move right ahead then to the storm water utility budget. Uh this uh as you know, we we adopted new rates in FY25. We went from a a flat rate, whether you were a homeowner, a renter or a large corporation of $2 a month um to uh billing based on your um based on your imperous surface uh that you that a business might have in their park, whether it's a parking lot, their roof, etc. Uh so uh we've seen um we've seen uh uh revenues increase as a result of that uh which has allowed us one to catch up. We had um some negative balances in here uh but also then to to accommodate some additional um storm water projects uh and equipment. And uh the couple things I want to talk about here and I I've touched on this in the memo but in the pre in last year's model that you saw at this meeting we were projecting bringing on uh two new employees uh in what we're calling a sewer collection division. So really looking at um storm water and wastewater sewer mains, manholes, maintaining those, jetting those, inspecting those regularly. Right now, as I noticed, we're more we're more reactive than we are proactive. And we're at a point where we think uh it's important to be more proactive here. And as as this new revenue source is coming along, you'll see later that wastewater um is is um is sitting pretty is is in good shape as well. That's where each one employee would be funded from each utility, storm water and wastewater because that is the collection system or the mains that these employees would be uh focused on. this this uh we're calling it a division would be under Michael. Uh so he would he would have a foreman um that would manage these folks uh and again uh be proactive in in maintaining our our sewer system. Uh the other [sighs and gasps] couple comments I would make um piece of equipment here for the the forestry attachment that that helps us clean the the banks along the creeks uh and and maintain uh maintain um quality storm water by uh by maintaining the banks. Uh, and then, uh, if you look all the way down at the bottom of the page, um, uh, we're looking at a Muddy Creek um, tree and underbrush project. Uh, what behind what used to be, uh, BCI to to clean that area up. Now that we're starting to take ownership some of these areas, we have better access to go in there, clean it up, make it look nice along our trail. So, uh, that's what I would note for the stormy utility fund and, uh, would would, uh, open it up for questions. [snorts] >> Is the funding of this, um, department where you hoped it would be with these rate changes? You feeling better about covering the expenditures? >> Yes, we are. In fact, we were running some numbers together. It appears that FY26 at least based on where we are at now, we'll come in closer to 500,000 this year. [clears throat and cough] We're at 452. So again, we're being I think pretty conservative. So as buildings come on, think of the University of Iowa, they have a lot of impervious pavement. They're paying this fee. um you know then we Russ updates the GIS maps gets that information to our billing department and they put it in and start billing. So that's a long answer but yes we we are >> okay and then from the the user standpoint uh what was the feedback when this fee went into place and has there been any um any push back or is it pretty understandable and and agreeable? It's been quiet unless you had >> We [clears throat] have not heard any feedback on fees. >> Okay, good. >> Russ, have you heard anything? >> I think we'd know. >> Yeah. Nick, anything on your >> So, similar question to piggyback on the mayor. So, with the revenues, the overall revenues, if we're adding FTEEs, what's what has been what's our current list of priority projects? We've been Muddy Creek cleanup has been a big one of ours. We were deficited for a while. There was I remember a number of projects that we were up here having to cut and say we weren't funding. So are we able to balance that addition of FTEES and does that FTE bring along allow additional work to get some of the priority projects? So what are some of those priority projects and will the FTEES allow us to get those done? >> Yeah. So, so as far as priority projects, we would my goal when I took over 10 almost 10 years ago was to get the complete city jetted and came. We've not gotten that done yet. Um, we had at that time we had a staff of eight and we're at a staff of 10 now [clears throat] including me. So, we've only grown tune at that time since that time. What I would look for this uh division to to start immediately is that jetting, that videoing, that immediate maintenance that we just haven't had the ability to do uh staff-wise and realizing that it's going to take um you know, we we can't start a division with 10 guys right away. You know, it's just not financially feasible. But the equipment, the knowledge is in my team and we can work with that new team to make it work. So my goal would be to continue to you're going to see me each year come up here and want to add to that division to get that to where it needs to be. So I we're we're still as for your priorities, we're still playing catch-up. I would say >> those other items are on the list. they they'll be part of the discussion next week as Ryan talked about. Um but they're not as um prioritized as maintenance and and just general maintenance of the systems. And if you uh to Michael's point, we will we will have uh all those projects listed out in the in the CIP. But if you take a look in FY28, uh, and go all the way down, um, you can see it. We talk about restoring Goose Lake, Money Creek, and West Lake. That's a conglomeration of projects right there, um, that we're talking about, uh, using some existing capital funds, and the operating fund to try to tackle those projects. So, it's they're close. They're much closer along than where we were. Uh I he'sard this uh story. The mayor's heard it a thousand times. Um I'm one of the reasons why uh I think citizens should be excited about this. I had a sewer backup in my house years ago. The very first project that your now not new jet truck did was my house because my backflow pre failed. uh and where the sewer mane went from the house uh underneath uh Debuke Street into the older part of town where the trees are mature and all of those tree roots got in there. We would have known had we had the time and the staff and the equipment to camera to jet the system prior to the backup, but we didn't. Um and then um add on to that folks that like to flush um wet wipes which are not flushable. uh the tree roots grab that and then they end up in people's basements like mine. So, uh this has been a long time coming. That was that was more than 10 years ago now >> [snorts] >> uh that that occurred in my home and we've been talking about that ever since. So, um, I I share that story because it's we're seeing additional funding requests because of stories like that and and your your explanation of why we have not been able to be proactive um to make sure those things don't happen. >> Yeah. And and you know, as new sub subdivisions come on, you know, you're gaining new storm, you're gaining new sanitary, you're gaining new signs, streets, all that. So, you're trying to keep up with [clears throat] uh current what you've had, but you're also trying to keep up with new growth. Um, so it's I think we've done a as as well of a job as we could have done uh in the confines that we have had. >> Um, but you know, I would love to do a lot better job. >> That would be my goal. >> Thank you. >> I'm encouraged by this also. just, you know, like you said, as we grow new, everyone loves, you know, all the new growth and and everything that's happening, but we can't, you know, take our eye off the old part of North Liberty and making sure that all that all runs well. So, I'm encouraged by this also. >> Sounds good. >> Thank you. >> Thanks again, Michael. >> Thank you. We'll move on to the water utility [clears throat] and uh we have Greg Meetterneck is our water superintendent here this evening with us as well. Uh you'll see uh this budget uh the theme tonight I should have mentioned is paying off bonds, paying off loans. The theme here is this budget is uh going down slightly uh because we are uh paying off an old uh revenue debt uh excuse me geo debt um that we encumbered a number of years ago. Otherwise things in the water department are going to stay relatively status quo. A couple of the larger projects that um are planned, actually it's really just one larger project that's planned. It's all the way down at the bottom under the water capital funds. You can see the summary, but um [clears throat] we are we need to upgrade some some of our water water meter equipment and Greg can talk a little bit more about that. It's really a technology thing. And so, uh we have a a two-year schedule to uh invest about $500,000 into that equipment. Um we continue to set aside $80,000 a year for our membrane trains. You've all been in that water department. You've seen where we where those um trains are at and um they're very expensive. So when it comes time to replace those, we want to make sure we have money set aside. We're doing something very similar with our wastewater membranes. Uh and then lastly, setting aside $75,000 just in the capital reserve fund. uh things come up uh and Greg can can certainly give you some stories, but you know, when we have a when we have a well go down and we have to pull it, you know, we can we can get a bill for $80,000 pretty quickly. So, we just want to continue to make sure we have cash available uh for when those things uh when those not if, but when those things happen because you know they they will. Um the last thing I would mention here um no no new staff is proposed here. I do want to note in both utilities where we are proposing or we I should say we will be proposing some sort of rate increase. um you're seeing a 5% rate increase now and as those of you who've been here for a while know that we will re-evaluate um rates or excuse me revenues and expenses in May and bring you an official recommendation and I you know the question that pops up in my mind looking at this is you know we're sitting on a healthy reserve why do we need to look at um rate increases well we've for a period of um depending on the utility five to six years I think it was five in water six in wastewater we didn't raise rates which was great um and that was right after uh we completed two major projects and the reason we didn't have to raise rates is because we did so prior to those projects well we have new projects uh coming up to keep up with the growth and if we want to be eligible to borrow from uh the SRF program or frankly any lending institution we have to have uh uh the rates um set so that uh we're considered a safe risk when it comes time to to borrow those funds. And right now we're in design uh with the uh water plant and uh wells upgrade project. Uh we approve that agreement u shortly before the end of the year. Uh and I just was on a phone call today uh with the same engineer about wastewater. uh and we'll be we'll be bringing a a task order to you probably in February uh to start design uh on the um wastewater side of things. So I know you know no one likes rate increases. Um many of us in this room will will ultimately have to pay it as well. But we do need to look at the financial viability of this system as we consider these large capital projects. And nothing in the world of utilities is inexpensive. It's all as we've seen very expensive um when it comes to maintaining and um adding on to. I will stop there and uh ask if there are any questions. Just a quick question for me, more of a formatting thing with the spreadsheet here. Is it are we projecting out to uh 2031 or is this for a couple years and it just wasn't room on the page? >> Uh, sorry Paul, I'm not sure I understand the question. Are you looking at >> Well, it doesn't fit on the screen here, but below that you have some highlighted upgrades and um additions. >> Uh can you go to the next page, Russ? >> Those talking about the brown highlight there. >> So, what that what we're doing there, we have a fiveyear CIP and so this model reflects everything in the five-year CIP. after after that is really more of a guesstimate, but we want to keep those numbers somewhat similar so we know we have an idea um of what revenues we need to to keep things operating. So this the water and wastewater are the only ones that we run out 20 years simply because when we have to submit for the SRF loan uh you know they want to see a long-term projection. So that's why we're but as you know it's it's hard to it's hard to plan out two years let alone 20. So a lot of that's just guesswork but the what's in the what's in the brown is capital improvements that have been vetted by the department head and other consultants on what we think we need to have happen. Know if that helps. >> It does. I was just was curious if all these expenditures needed to happen in the next two years or >> No. Um they are they they go with the >> the perfect the fiscal year. Yeah. >> Any questions on water? >> I think we're done. >> Okay. We'll move along to wastewater here. Uh Drew Lamers is our wastewater superintendent. He's here this evening as well. Uh what you're looking at uh is very similar to what you just saw in the water fund. Um and I would note here is where the [clears throat] additional uh collection employee would be funded from. So we have one from storm water, one from wastewater. And while they're funded from these utilities, they would operate under uh the guidance of our street superintendent. Uh a couple other things I would notice again uh I believe we had yeah we had a bond payment come off this year. So that helped uh helped with the obviously the budget numbers. When you look at large projects planned for this year, um there's really just one uh and that is upgrades to the Cedar Cedar Springs lift station budget at 425,000. Uh and uh certainly Drew can can um enthral you with the details of the electrical components that need to be upgraded and the um building that we want to bring in and and house uh uh uh the equipment in. Um, so if you have questions on that, we can bring him up. The other piece of this 625,000 is uh um or 685,000 is $220,000 being set aside for the membrane replacements. In here, this model, we have a little bit more detail than we did with water simply because these membrane replacements uh were they come from Germany, Drew, or where are they? >> Hungary. >> Hungary. Okay. And so Drew every year sits down with this company, it seems like every year, it's probably not quite, has to work out a contract on when we're going to be replacing these membranes. And when we first got into this membrane bioreactor plant, they told us a life expectancy was 10 years. You've a lot of you've heard me say this or Drew say this. We've what's how what's our oldest membrane right now that's operating? 18 years. So, we've made it last eight years longer. And when you're when you're I mean, when we when we're replacing all these, I mean, you're it's significant money to replace these membranes. And so, this model just shows, okay, we're setting aside money each year. We know in FY26 we're going to make a um and that number is actually going to change a little bit, but it was budgeted for $300,000 that we're going to pay that company um to start um a replacement project on the membranes. And you'll see through here um all the way through 37 um when different phases of the membranes are going to be replaced. And it changes regularly again because these guys are somehow getting 10-year membranes to last 18 years and still, you know, having the quality of water be excellent. Um, but it it it does get a little complicated and overwhelming for sure. Uh, so we're happy to answer any any questions on that as well. But overall, uh, this this budget um remains in good shape. Uh when you look at the capital improvement plan um and capital improvements that we anticipate that we [clears throat] anticipate starting design for here later this year uh it's probably going to be a [clears throat] well you can see here you know an annual payment is going to be about 3.3 million on the loan we're going to have to service for that again that's why we're recommending rate increases. We have great fund balances for now, but you'll see we'll eat into those fund balances pretty quickly when debt starts coming on for the um significance of these projects. I think phase one is about a was a $48 million project or somewhere in there. I'd have to look um at the facility report, but it's it's significant. I'll stop. Drew is eager to talk to you. What questions do you have for him? Just no way to get rid of that Cedar Springs lift station. >> We No, we've kicked the can on this uh controls cabinet a few years now. Um >> I mean to [clears throat] eliminate it totally. >> Totally. >> Wasn't there wasn't there a cost share with the HOA? Like where's the where's the HOA deal fall into this? Cuz there's been a lot of conversation about that over the years. >> Well, correct me if I'm wrong here. It's called the Cedar Spring lift station because that's where it's located. >> But all of the lift stations and there's I don't think there's 10. >> Those are seven >> seven lift stations in the back is Cedar Springs. >> Those are all paid for by the HOA. >> HOA. Okay. >> They dump in then to our main that Cedar Springs lift station. What area does that serve? >> [snorts] >> Grant >> I mean serves all of us. >> He was doing well with not talking. >> Yeah, [laughter] >> those seven lift stations all supply to that Cedar Springs. >> But are there other neighborhoods that come into the Cedar Springs station? >> Um Michael, >> is it Fox? >> It's our busiest lift station. Okay. >> But everything in the back, all that private stuff that's put in, that's all paid for by >> Okay. >> And I tend to I walk back there quite a bit. I see they have it managed now by company called People's Service. >> It's a a private water wastewater >> that's been >> hired by the HOA. >> Yeah. >> Okay. >> We've been approached to take over those stations. They're >> the resounding >> just the way that they were installed and constructed and designed um really wouldn't benefit us much to take them over. >> Right. >> So is it is it just age of equipment? Is it a pump? Is it is it the full the whole cabinet >> both uh the cabinet? So it's a 6x6 cabinet roughly. Um, and in 2009 it was, we'd call it upgrading, but it was more just added to equipment. We went to larger pumps. Um, that development was kind of filling out. Um, and since then, some of that equipment has aged and it's just it's so compact in there. The wiring, just the placement of things in there um are not ideal. Last winter, we had it took four of our staff out there in like sub-zero temperature to create a tarp and a tent underneath there, heat it, and then kind of lay on your [snorts] back upside down and unwire things and rewire things just wasn't really ideal in any situation. So, uh, this proposal for a building is, um, it's like a fully furnished building other than, um, concrete laid out ahead of time, a slab concrete. They'll bring this building in. It's already been tested uh with all the components, the drives, um arc safe cabinetry, so all the voltages are separated. So when somebody opens it up, you you don't have high voltage mixed with low voltage. And uh you plug in the electricity to it and anchor it down to the ground and you can fire it up and run it because it's already been tested in house. >> So there's a huge safety factor to staff built in. >> Yes, safety factor for that. It keeps all of our controls and temperature controlled environment. So hopefully you're going to gain some life out of that. Um and not hopefully we never have to use it or move it, but it is completely portable too. So if it had to go somewhere else, you just unanchor it, disconnect the power, and it can go somewhere else. >> Are we going to realize any reduction in maintenance over the lifetime of the >> Um it's more of a a risk thing out there? Uh, I [clears throat] haven't purchased any new spare parts for that cabinet for that reason. Last year, we did have to put two new soft start drives in there, but since that station's so busy, it only has about 12 minutes of downtime. So, when we upsize or when we if we go to this building, we will put VFD drives in there, and we could expect probably a a pump to run consistently um at a lower hertz, we can ramp those pumps up up and down that way, and then we don't have such such surging all the time out there. So, Is there any temporary equipment that's going to have to go in for the transfer? >> Um, we've got a generator that has a control cabinet built on the back of it that could possibly run at least one of those pumps on site. So, there's some logistics we'd have to work through during that. But supplying a building that's fully set up like this is going to give us the least amount of downtime um for something like this. Otherwise, it's the design, bid, build, and then you're talking separate trades for every single component of that station. >> How much downtime are you expecting or how much how long will it take to make this change? >> Um, I'm not sure. I mean, the pumps have to stay running obviously or or we have to bypass, which is really not ideal if the pumps are in place. So the uh one of the vendors or suppliers that we looked at of this building, they have a portable control setup as well. So they can also offer some of those services >> um to help accommodate this transfer over. So but in length of time, I would assume a day or two days >> versus weeks of constructing and things like that. I mean there'll be there'll be site placement and layout. There's a lot of details to work through on that end of it. Um but for the most part the costs are there for what the building is and some of those other trades. >> Nice. And the footprint of this building will how much different will it be from the existing >> 8 by8 building. >> Okay. >> There is no building. >> Oh sorry I'm thinking of something else there. Okay. >> That's awesome. Yeah. >> Thank you. >> Anything else? Thank you. Okay. Well, uh that was efficient. Um [clears throat] uh what what the plan is that that is really our our operating budget that we just talked through. So our plan then would be [clears throat] uh next week at our regular meeting talking about the capital project. Some of these folks will be back [cough and clears throat] uh talking about you'll see you notice there's nothing in here on hotel motel tax. We're still working on that model. Very close to having that done. That'll be in there as well. Uh and and we'll then talk about some of these other projects. So that's uh what's planned for next week. I guess I would ask while we have everyone here, is there any other uh questions for for this team? Uh on the operating side of things, >> I don't have any questions. I think it's important that this meeting is recorded and the general public can come back and watch it whenever they want to. There's a lot of discussion about cities becoming more efficient and I think that you all operate this as if it's your family and it's your budget. Um and that is only to the benefit of our community. So, I I I cannot thank you enough for the time and the effort that you've um not just in these past couple of months, but your day-to-day operations, and you instill that um in everyone that's in your department. Um and they carry that uh as well. We don't get a lot of push back on the uh the services that we provide. Um you meet those needs. And from a budgetary standpoint, uh this conversation for us is really a matter of um a summary of what you're all doing out there and and extremely grateful for it compared to what it may have been 10 years ago. So, and that is starts with you uh and it filters out to all of you out there in the audience. So, I can't thank you enough uh for for what you're doing and the position that you continue to put the city in. So, I've I've been doing this a while now, and I can tell tell you every year the process gets more refined, smoother, uh more accurate, and I think that it's a testament to, you know, our administrative staff and then for you guys all working, you know, under Ryan there to make sure everything gets uh everything needs to get done is getting done. >> It's it's the collaborative work. I don't think I've and I'm sure you would all hide these and ne and never try to say these things especially in front of council members, but I don't think I've I've ever heard um of you know [snorts] public uh arguments or or any of you saying well you know I got this at the expense of my department. There's there's never been any of that in my time on council. Um, and it to the mayor's point, it it reflects in the services that you're providing with quite frankly little resource. Um, we we do our best up here to be efficient with taxpayer money. Um, but we know and we see from the pickup that guy drives to the dump truck that, you know, uh, Drew limped along for 10 plus years to there's there's lots of things making mowers run for 15 years. I can't get a mower to run for 5 years on my lawn. It it's impressive uh what this team does because of the collaborative work that and the collaborative nature in which you do things as a team and you're working together for the betterment of the city and not just for your one department. We see that and the services that you're providing to the community are reflecting that. So, thank you. I would echo everything that that they said and you know our before I got on the council I you know just enjoyed the city. [clears throat] Didn't really think you know much about it. Didn't really know much about the nuts and bolts of of everything that goes on and uh just really impressed by all of you guys and appreciate all of you guys. I mean even down to how the you know how the information is is laid out in the spreadsheet easy to easy to understand. And so just I guess yeah, keep up the great work. Uh we're grateful for all that you do and and you're really good at what you do. So uh we're we're blessed to have you. Thank you. I already shared my comments, but I I would just ask from from my seat if you will take uh this sentiment, this encouragement, the these comments back to your teams, back to your staff as well and share them with those uh with a heartfelt thank you because it's not often that they probably hear that as as much as they probably should. Um, you guys are the department head, you guys and gals are the department heads, but please take that this messaging back to your staff as well. Uh, with a heartfelt thank you from at least my seat and and council as well. >> Um, I guess I've met all of you and um still learning a lot of the ropes and everything of course. Um but in the short amount of time that I have met each and every person throughout all of the city's um functions and everything, I've been really impressed um just with how all of the departments are run and um the mindset of of each of you and uh I'm I'm impressed and and thank you very much for everything that you do. I think that's a wrap-up. >> Sounds good. >> Any other final questions? No, I'm just kidding. >> Um, do you need We have a meeting next week uh to go over CP. Anything else to add tonight? >> No. >> Okay, then I it looks like item 10 is the adjournment. So, I'll take a motion to adjurnn. >> So, moved. >> Second by Park. Seconded by Liebold. >> Any questions? All in favor say I. I post.