Title: Public Improvements 2026: Forevergreen Road & Jasper Avenue Improvements
Published: 2026-03-23 18:13:04
Video ID: hzxQh_j6l54

Hello folks. I am Nick Burgess. We're going to get started here in just a couple of minutes. We're going to let it uh just give people just a couple more minutes to to join us. Um and then we'll get started and talk about uh some improvements that are happening here in North Liberty. Today we're talking about Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue. Just give us just another minute. All right. Well, let's get started. Again, thank you for coming today. I'm Nick Burgess. I am the City of North Liberty's Community Relations Director. This construction season, which will get underway shortly, particularly if we have weather like this, and will last until it snows um in the late fall and in November, uh will bring improvements to Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue, as well as the next phase of Centennial Park development with a splash pad. And we're also finalizing designs for Ranch at Way, the Cherry Street Firehouse, um and more. So, we're going to take talk through a few of these projects um that are both going to be in construction this season, as well as things that are currently in design and that we get lots of questions about. First, if we could just have the folks, the staff on the call, uh introduce themselves real quick. Uh we'll go from there. We'll start with the We'll start with you, Michael. That was the least helpful. That's like a joke, right? I just There were there were two Michaels, and I uh just pointed to one of them. Go ahead, Mr. Pentecost. Okay. Uh hi, my name is Michael Pentecost. I'm the Street Superintendent for the City of North Liberty. Josiah? Uh hello. My name is Josiah Billskemper. I work for Shive-Hattery as an engineer, but uh I'm also the City Engineer for North Liberty. And last, but certainly not least, Mr. Janacek. Uh I'm Mike Janacek with Shive-Hattery, uh civil engineer on some of the projects that we'll be talking about this week. Wonderful. Uh and Mr. Radcliffe, are you are you Would it be helpful to introduce yourself here? Uh yeah, yes. I'm Nick Radcliffe, and I also have worked on several of these projects, and uh yeah, I'm the civil engineer as well. So. Wonderful. Uh if you folks have questions as we go, there is a little Q&A box uh that you should have access to. Um uh [clears throat and snorts] and uh we'll get to We'll have a space for questions at the end. But, go ahead and drop questions in there as as you need to. Um here's a quick overview of the of the projects that we will be talking about uh this week. We've got these meetings every uh noon on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. So, today, obviously, we are talking about Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue down in the southwest portion at our border with Coralville, Johnson County, and the City of Tiffin. Tomorrow we're going to be talking about the final phase of Ranch at Way, which is obviously in the which to the city limits there to the south south central part of North Liberty. On Wednesday, we're going to be talking about the Centennial Park splash pad, which will be right there next to the IB Center and amphitheater. Um and we'll start this fall. Uh or I'm sorry, start this spring. Woo. Uh we're also going to talk a little bit about uh the community center the first phase of a parking lot improvements, which will also make it which will make it work better as a parking lot and also as a pedestrian access. And then finally, on Thursday, we're going to talk about the Cherry Street Firehouse, which is a pretty big and complicated project um which is in design now. Um we're not going to touch on projects uh like the the Iowa Department of Transportation's 380 project with the Penn Street interchange, even though that will have some obvious big impacts to North Liberty this uh this summer and is expected to go through next year. Um we're also not going to talk about City of Coralville-led projects uh such as the Forevergreen Road extension between um just there by uh North Central Junior High at 12th Avenue and right off of North Liberty Road First Avenue in Coralville. Um you can find overviews of our projects and more information as we go at northlibertyiowa.org/projects. Uh you can also subscribe to updates, which includes closures as we we learn about them and as they get scheduled at northlibertyiowa.org/subscribe. And you're always welcome to email me at nburgess@northlibertyiowa.org. And my contact information uh will be on the slide at the end of the presentations. So, with all that said, uh Mike, let's get into it. Let's talk about Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue. Let's talk a little bit about what that overview looks like and how and what people can expect from that project. All right. Thanks, Nick. Uh so, Forevergreen Road and Jasper Avenue improvements, um this project has actually already been bid. Um it was in design for the last year. Uh it had a letting in January. Um so, this this project, here's the the limits you can see here. This is north is to the right on this one. Uh contractor, that was a low bid, was awarded to a joint venture of CJ Moyna & Sons and Progressive Structures uh with a low bid in the amount of just over 5 million. Uh construction timeline for this is uh basically any day now this spring until uh kind of end of fall through the construction season. So, uh just for points of reference, I can see the southbound I-380 off-ramp. Uh this is Park Road in Tiffin. The uh the funky intersection everybody in the area is well familiar with. It's kind of that double offset T effect that is right through this area with QuickTrip being this location here. So, the most important part of this project is installing a two-lane roundabout uh on Forevergreen Road to get that traffic pattern cleaned up. Um and then along with it, we have reconstructing Jasper Avenue to the north of the roundabout through QuickTrip, through Diamond Boulevard, all the way uh to where the North Liberty lift station is. Uh there's kind of a fence line tree line. Um this is existing gravel road. Uh along with this project, we're doing storm sewer. We have water main improvements, uh taking a water main along the east side of the road, and then creating a water main connection uh to Tiffin uh through the the north and west side of the roundabout location. Uh one other kind of fun fact with this one, uh this does provide future connection for uh pedestrian trail out to Covered Bridge. Uh you can see here dashed in in the green. So, the at the heart of this project, like I said, this we have the roundabout that's at the junction of of Coralville, Tiffin, North Liberty, Johnson County. Uh you can see just a a more zoomed-in version. So, this in this image here, we have north is is up. So, we have QuickTrip uh located in this northeast quadrant here. Um just a some depiction of what that center island of the roundabout will look like. So, this would be a view facing west. So, this would be looking towards that Park Road intersection um up at the top here. Uh very similar color palettes to what we would see at the other North Liberty roundabouts that we've had. Um with a raised limestone wall and kind of some mounding. Uh this one won't have won't have the trees, similar to what some of the other roundabouts have had due to the high energy lines that are actually going over the top of uh the roundabout area. Um just other point of reference here, there is that that massive utility pole that's located next to the intersection uh today. So, today, if you go through that intersection, it is located on the kind of north side of the south connection to Tiffin. So, right in this area. So, you can see the the new roundabout location puts that pole on the opposite side of the intersection. Um yeah, that's that's kind of the the nutshell of the scope here. Uh current current work that you might be seeing going on out there, uh there's been a lot of uh staking and utility relocation work going on in advance of the project. Uh most of that should be wrapping up here in the next couple of weeks as the contractor starts to mobilize in uh and begin begin work on the phasing of this project. So, through this all, two lanes of traffic will be maintained, one lane of traffic in each direction through Forevergreen Road, so there'll always be access to Tiffin. Uh Jasper Avenue north of Diamond Boulevard north of Quickstar, that'll be closed for the duration of the project, but there will always be access to Quickstar. Uh the project will be done in multiple phases just to accommodate getting traffic through uh the roundabout construction in itself uh and through each one of the phases, uh the intersection will be set up as like a a three-leg stop-controlled intersection, so at no point does that uh kind of double-offset T effect that's there today, at no point does that reintroduce itself uh during during the phasing of this project. So, the phasing should actually improve upon the existing condition in itself, too, which is a pretty unique one with roadway construction. Um that is that's kind of the project Yeah. in a nutshell for that. Yeah, so let's talk about a couple of of things. First off, I think it's important to recognize uh so, right, this project has been one that we've wanted to have done and move pretty quickly on, all things considered. Um there's been we were we were thankful to help navigate some disagreements uh that we weren't a part of and some litigation that allowed this project to proceed. Um that's so, that's one of the reasons that the city of North Liberty is leading this project even though not all of it is in North Liberty. Um we are sharing some of the the the costs of the roundabout, but not all of not of the Jasper Avenue work, 50% with uh the city of Tiffin itself. Um where while the uh city of Coralville um and the private property owners to the northwest have helped uh have have provided easement access for this project. Um other really exciting thing is that this project came in about 1.6 million dollars under the estimate, so we feel really good about that. Um and the the contractor uh is is geared up to do a big road project, and we're working with them to see on where what spaces we can uh where we can maybe move this forward a little bit faster than we might uh might otherwise. Right? Um so, folks, when we when we take on a big complex project like this, right, once obviously there's property pieces that that are really important here, uh and that sort of was one of the big hold-ups, though we moved forward on design in a pretty condensed time, right? So, from last year till now, we've designed the project um and a bid and awarded the project, which is all which is which is pretty good. Um how do we how do you how do you folks think about Mike, how do you think about phasing this? Um and how do how does that process for you work where you where we're trying to figure out how to get traffic through here, right? This is obviously a busy intersection, and it's only gotten busier. Um and this is you know, this used to just be that were two gravel roads met, and now it it's right, it's it's the connection point between North Liberty and Tiffin. Um it's a connection to Tiff from for Tiffin to the interstate, um and it's where all of these these jurisdictions come together. How do you think about how how we phase this in a way that allows traffic to happen and come through? Yeah, so I mean, clearly with with any with any roadway project, uh a full closure is like the ideal situation from both the design and a construction aspect, and in general, if uh it's acceptable to public, that becomes cheaper and faster, so it's kind of a a triple win, quadruple win. Um with with a situation like this where we are, you know, we're right next to the interstate, we're right next to uh a truck stop uh that needs to maintain that access, uh it it becomes it becomes just kind of like separating out a puzzle, really, and and seeing where uh seeing how you can clip off pieces in one phase to still allow, you know, those two lanes of traffic to get through, uh and you factor in factor in the utilities that have to go in with it, factor in the grading that has to go with it. Uh there there's a considerable amount of of grading that goes in with this project, you know, the the intersection that we have right here in itself, um just for perspective, it's it's lowering by a couple feet, whereas we have as we go north on Jasper, I mean, there's almost 8 to 10 feet where that road has to raise just to accommodate uh underground utilities and uh and getting proper drainage through there. Um and and with that with that phasing, too, I mean, this this one's a little bit unique from a lot of projects around North Liberty that we've done because this needs to maintain not only just traffic, it needs to maintain like interstate size semi level of traffic. So, as we're going through to plan out phasing, we're we're running truck turning movements just to make sure um make sure those vehicles can safely navigate everything through here, and then it becomes uh you know, trying to implement temporary pavement, temporary roadway temporary access situations um just to just kind of eliminate that need to actually create that closure in the first place. So, what it does, it extends the project timeline out a little bit, but with the massive benefit of at no point does at no point does traffic to Park Road get fully closed off from the interstate, which was uh you know, in the beginning in the beginning concept-wise of this project, it was anticipated at some point access to Park Road would be eliminated for for a portion of a phase, and we were able to kind of jockey some some construction areas around to um make it a little bit more awkward for a contractor, but far less inconvenient for the general public. So, it that worked out very well. That's right. Um we can switch if there are questions from folks in attendance, feel please feel free to We've got a question here from Kent. Let me read this one. Uh Regards to the temporary access in place during construction, with the construction and lane restrictions currently in place at the Penn I-380 overpass, the Forevergreen Jasper work will be affect will be will be affecting another source of bicycle access to the roads to the west of I-380. Will temporary access roads include provisions for cyclists? Uh as of right now, temporary access roads are just accommodating uh the 12-ft lane with 2-ft shoulder. So, it's going to be that that 14-ft paved strip um similar to what we would see on on other other paved kind of rural-esque type of roadways. Uh there there is not a specific bike lane being added in to the temporary drives. And it so, while we will have future accommodations uh off-road accommodations here, there aren't those for that during construction. Correct. To to answer your question, Kent. Is there anything else that's uh that if we've got any other questions, we'll happily take those. Um are there other Is there any other information that that you think is critical, Michael or Josiah to or Nicholas to convey uh about this project? I think I was just going to chime in there, Nick. Yeah. Then Michael was talking about the access through and the question about bikes. Yeah. Um Mike, I'm if I if I have this right, when we have temporary access through there, uh we still generally have a three-way stop or an all-way stop. Correct. >> condition. Um so, that that will help uh obviously there's no bike lanes uh room to accommodate that, but we don't have traffic free flowing through the intersection. Everybody needs to come to a stop, so while it's not a bike lane, it certainly should slow down traffic and you know, today there's no it's all it's all on-road access for bikes today, so at least that will provide you an opportunity to get in the line and um to share that space, I think. Thank you, Josiah. Oh, and I got I just saw a floating thumbs up. That's amazing. I love uh the internet. Uh well, unless there are additional questions, this is of course recorded, and we'll post the uh we will post this in its entirety um on our projects page, which is at northlibertyiowa.org/projects. Don't forget, you can jump uh uh subscribe to uh project updates, including closures, at northlibertyiowa.org/subscribe. And you can email or call me right there on the screen. Nick Bergus is my name, nbergus@northlibertyiowa.org. Um and that's my office line, 319-626-5756. I am always happy to answer questions, uh and if I don't know the answer, I will get it for you. Um don't forget, tomorrow we'll be back to talk about the final uh phase of Ranch at the Way, which is currently in design um for construction next year. Um and then on Wednesday, we'll be talking about the Centennial Park Splash Pad, the second phase of that park's development, as well as some improvements to the community center parking lot, which will both begin this year. And then finally on Thursday, we're going to come back and talk about the Cherry Street Firehouse and the plans there um for which which is an exciting and big project and will partially be funded by the the voter approved local option sales tax uh starting that that will come into effect this July 1. And with that I hope everybody has a chance to get outside and enjoy the sun. And hope to see you again soon. Thank you. Thanks, Nick. Thank you.