Title: North Liberty Parks & Recreation Commission Thursday, April 2, 2026 7:00 PM
Published: 2026-04-03 13:13:20
Video ID: KQB2B0a84cU

Good evening. I'll call this meeting of the Parks and Rec Commission to order. First order of business is approval of minutes of last month's meeting. I motion we accept the minutes as written. I have a motion. A second. I have a second. Any objection to unanimous approval? None. Minutes stand approved as read. Okay, next up, do we have someone in the audience that would like to speak to us? Okay, if you'll come up to the mic and say your name and and what's your purpose? Wonderful, thanks for having me. Um, I was just told maybe I'm not in the right spot, but maybe you guys could just give me a little bit of guidance of what area of the city I should be talking to. So, my name's Rachel Stadlin. Um, my address, I live on Mary Lane. It's right across the street from the high school. Um, and I'm here mostly because, um, just wondering more about uh, parks and residential parks in the neighborhoods. So, I'm a new mom. Um, love being in North Liberty. I've lived here several years. Want to grow our family here. Just have noticed in our area, as you guys know, is being very highly developed. Um, and just very little, I think the closest park to us actually is Penn Meadows, um, which is about a mile and a half away. And so, um, wondering if the this has been discussed like in these new developments of residential parks and green space where kids can like bike or we can walk that is accessible and safe. Um, and so, that's mostly why I'm here is just to kind of see if that's been talked about or where I could go to further that discussion. Well, you're here. Is that something you can respond to? Um, Brian, uh, the the best person to talk to would be Ryan Rustick. He's our planning, um, person here. He, uh, we do have master plans, um, but it probably doesn't go this that far now that everything is developing that direction. Um but we are we always are looking for new property and when they approve developments, I know they're looking we don't I mean Ryan Rustwick, he'd be the person because he's the one who's oversees the developments. >> Sure. When they're first coming and they present to him. Um I know I know I just he'd probably be the best person to talk to. Okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's just um even like compared to like Tiffin and Iowa City, I just feel like in general we don't have as many parks and you guys if that's something I'm misspeaking on. It just feels like in general like neighborhood parks like in Iowa City you can pretty much Right. >> like within a half mile um get to a park and take your kid there and here it's very difficult with these busy roads. I know they're developing some smaller trails to get things that are more but I just took you know my daughter 8-month-old um 8-month-old up to Penn Meadows and there wasn't even like a swing set there. I'm just like okay like just things that like are actually um with with these new young families that are all coming and living here. I just feel like it's something that should be like addressed of trying to get more areas that families can find accessibility to. >> Yeah. We appreciate your concern and I think what Guy is saying in the master plan once a park was developed or approved then this the role of this organization you know would be to discuss how to develop you know how to develop the land and all but have nothing to do with the acquisition. >> agreements that they make with developers. Yeah. >> Yeah. Is that city council or Ryan? >> Ryan. They have a planning and zoning commission. >> Planning and zoning. >> it begins and then it once they have a plan they want to present then it comes to city council. Okay. Great. Well, but one thing I would tell you so we'll just pretend like we're not looking at any of that but this is a really great place to start. So I don't want to discourage you from not bringing things or or saying what you want and then the the question is going to going to the next person and then go to city council and then just keep saying it because Yeah. obviously, you know, parks are wonderful things. >> Yeah, and like I said, I mean I'm just kind of new to the community and just kind of want to know what the plan is and everybody stands on it. So, it's important I think to to me and my family and and so thank you for the resource and I'll reach out to him and appreciate your time. Your comments will be recorded in our minutes and other people will see that. And just a little bit background. There So, last few days there was a a post about this and followed by lots of comments in the last North Liberty Moms group that has several thousands residents. So, and it's been a while that people are concerning that there are it's developing too fast like our North Liberty and lots of houses are built and lots of trees and you know, park areas are being taken. Yeah, just want to provide some background and please I encourage you that let you know, the city council know I'll be aware of our concern. Yeah. And you can go to the city council. You can I mean, it's a it's a open forum like this. They're very nice people and they're very receptive and you know, I would encourage you to get involved in you know, the city, volunteer, do you know what I mean? That's how that's how your voice gets heard and people listen. So, for sure do it. It's a it's a great thing. I've grandkids, so I understand. Well, another suggestion is that we do have a parks master plan. Right. So, I would look for that if you want. >> years. Yeah. >> Um but that does kind of gave an overview as as the city was developing where some of the vacant spots and what we're trying to, you know, when these developments come to our attention, you know, is there a chance to get any type of green space is always what we're looking for, but there is no guarantee or we're always getting the pond or the water feature versus land Yeah. Yeah. And actually so what we have in our neighborhood is a pond which fair market value for the property. Sure. But the park plan I mean I think is another thing to it does show some of those circles of you know, neighborhood parks that we have that how it encompasses the city itself and what are lacking points I guess. Yeah, I saw the I saw the map that's actually up there now and if I'm not sure it's really not up super up to date it was several years old and but if you see where I live like there's literally the like nothing there except for Penn Meadows and so it's just interesting from a bird's eye view to see the areas that that could potentially be developed into having I think it's certainly you know, have a discussion with Ryan maybe he knows something that I don't I mean he would know something before I would so Yeah. Yeah. Maybe we can get that updated. >> bring it up to him. Yeah. needed to update the map. Yeah. If it's Mhm. feasible if we do have anything that Yeah. we know that is green space out that direction or whatever. Yeah, we'll pass along what we can and we'll encourage you or others in your Yeah. community to bring it up to Great. other other parts of the city. Okay. But we'll do we'll do what we can. Okay. Appreciate your time. Thanks for coming. I'm going to stay. Yeah. Oh, good. Stick around. Okay. Next to my item on the agenda is a update on the splash pad and that's um All right. I got a couple photos of what renderings of what it's going to look like. Um we did receive seven bids. And the low responsible bid that was awarded to was Conlon Construction out of Dubuque, Iowa. Um that bid was 2.4 uh million dollars which it it came in under what the estimate was going to be. So, we were able to do an alternate one and alternate two with those are included. So, the alternate one was additional parking along road and some additional landscaping that's going to go along with it. So, it ranged from the low at 2.4 and the high at 3.4. Those are pretty good range. Um but we feel confident this Colin Colin Construction will do a very good job. We've heard good reviews back from other places. Um let's see what else do I want to say. Any questions on that? Now, does that also include the bathroom or is that separate? >> includes the mechanical restrooms, the splash pad which I think is about 5,700 square feet, but there's actually more square footage when you include the whole pad and everything around it. And can I ask on the bathroom, will that be just one will it be like uh the Hy-Vee Center? I No, I don't think so. >> you mean or Yeah. No, there's four different There's two on each side of the building. Two bathrooms on each side, but >> Yep. What's in each of them? >> Yeah, they're not the same. All user I don't know how they think. And there will be a place to change diapers and stuff like that in those bathrooms. >> so. And one of them is actually a changing area for adults Oh, good. >> I know one of the bathrooms on each side will have an adult changing station or whatever you want to call it. Has there been any discussion about having a mother's room? You know, I know there's restrooms, but having a kind of a proper mother's room at that location? For nursing or at that site? >> At that site I don't I would I don't think so. I forget their requirements are sink of nursing Yeah. I suppose at the Hy-Vee Center they could use Potentially maybe the Hy-Vee Center. I mean they don't have a designated spot no outside restrooms at the Hy-Vee Center will will always be open and those are single use stalls in there be a sink Hy-Vee Center yeah. Yeah, I had somebody ask about that just right now a lot of young families and moms still nursing and but anyway construction should begin roughly you know mid spring here and will go for about a year. I'm hoping May of next year or so it you know it's going to be close to being open. This might be too early to ask will the restrooms open year round? The reason I ask is because the Solon Splash Pad the restroom hatch to it don't don't open during winter. Like when I when we go like go for a run it's not open it's closed but it's maybe too early to ask. That building will not be heated heated so it's going to be winterized. The Splash Pad building that's what you're talking about. So they won't be open. But there will be a restroom at the Hy-Vee Center okay okay okay that's true okay cuz there will be a restroom at that park all year round. That's what I understood. There is a website there's a link on the website where Nick presented last week a series of upgrades and there's a whole show or whatever of about the Splash Pad on there he explained the dimensions and everything on on that that was last week and I happen to sit on on that and thanks for Guy for for sharing I think it is as I understand yeah you said this work this spring and stuff but definitely not open to 27. Right so the very first portion of this construction is the building the mechanical room restroom facility so we're going to keep the footprint small um just because of Blues & BBQ. That's going to be in July, and then after that event is over, then we're going to broaden out into the rest of where they we're going to do the features and the plumbing and all that. So, we're going to try to keep the footprint pretty small right now until Blues & BBQ is over. And a little bit of explanation on the cost, it's because of filtration. You want to explain how the water Yeah, this is it's not fresh to waste like the one at Pin Meadows. This one is going to be treated water. Um it's going to be recirculating. So, that will have the water be treated basically like a pool would be treated. Um So, it's not going to be like the water >> on the size of a splash pad. It determines if it's recycling or Oh, it's just Yeah, so off to waste. So, the small size of Pin Meadows is why that just goes to waste, but because of the size of its Centennial Park, it has to be recycled. The pool water But, it's treated. So, when the water comes back out, it's Right. Okay, makes sense. Yep. Like I said, similar to pools. filtration. It will be It's just no deep water. I guess you would get It's all spray water versus deep water, but it's kind of the same concept as like the pool. And it will have to be tested the same way as a pool is tested. water chemistry Who's Parks and Rec Aquatics monitoring that, or are you you're monitoring that? >> We're going to recommend combination combination of aquatics since we already have the expertise, but then also maybe get um I know uh I was thinking Josh, our facilities manager, new position, since he he kind of sometimes is out at Centennial Park. >> Mhm. Like his office, I guess you would call it. Um maybe get in if he wants that training, that'd be great to have secondary individuals cuz again, during the summer is when we need all our aquatics to have on hand at the pool versus out there. Um but I I think it'd be a good combination between parks and rec to help cuz like we don't do anything with the waste one that you guys do all the work on the Palmettos one, so That's because it's not treated. You have to be certified somewhat, right? Yeah, so we're none of us are certified. Right, but it's pretty When we opened the pools, all of us five supervisors were all trained. Um I know Mark is also I think got his CPO, so we we've all gone through it. Uh myself, I know I'm a lapse now, but Brian, you still have your No, you're a lapse, too. Uh but again, at the time when we had the pools, we had all the supervisors do the training, so it's something that is can be done. Um and then especially with Ashley's knowledge to pass on to anybody, we can get that certification for whomever we decide that can help cuz, you know, Ashley needs vacation, too, and all that, so uh we'll have to figure that out on who all has it. We have a year to think about it. You say certified uh increase parking, how's that going to work? Where is the parking? Um you know the side parking along the road that goes around? You see those little chunks of the brick? We're going to keep adding on to those within that stretch. So it gives us more side parking. >> of the East side, yeah. East side. Of the park? Is where the additional parking will go? Yep. So how big is this? Three times four times of the Palmettos? Palmettos? Oh, it's it's it's bigger. It's It's like uh eight times bigger. Eight times bigger. Nice. Yeah, that's only a thousand up there. Okay. So there are multiple buttons. There'll be activation buttons. Yes, it's right on an activation button. Mhm. We're also looking at I'm not sure but budget wise but I'm looking at a weather warning system out there. It's called Perry Weather. Um so this is something we're looking into it. So it would actually shut the the water off if there's lightning within let's say 10 miles. You can program it to whatever you want. That's neat. That's a good idea. >> Yeah, just cuz it's going to be unmanned. Yeah, since there's no staff there. My worry is that that people are not going to leave. When storms, yeah. But this will give an audible warning like they'll explain why it's closing. There's lightning in the air. Oh, yeah. And then it will 30 minutes after the last lightning strike it will activate again. >> But it's very expensive and but it I think it's something that's going to be very beneficial. throughout that that that facility. Things we don't think of but after today we're storm conscious again. When you say expensive what is what is that? Uh there's pretty good annual fee. >> look at the operation yet so Probably around 20 grand a year just for the subscription. What's a subscription? Yeah. And then of course it's getting it set up to begin with. So there's some cost there too. I mean so the first initial is pretty expensive. Um also contemplating it possibly at the at Penn Meadows at the sports complex. during tournaments, you know, things like that but Um more importantly out here at the splash pad I think. Yeah, popular as that'll be and things, you know. Yeah. Um one other question may have talked about this forgive me but the splash pad what's the lighting situation? Is this a daylight use Yep. thing only, right? It's not like there's night time lighting. No. Um just the light. >> talked about that but determined that really the park closes at 10:00, okay? In the middle of summer, it's light until 9:00. 9:00. So, the cost of adding this lighting system, was it really beneficial? Probably not. So, we left that out. And what keeps people from um coming like at midnight and messing around with it? It's programmed. It will not be active. That button will not be active at 10:00. So, when you say that shuts off, it's that Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Just like our tennis court now, um that button you push the button, the lights will come on, but it they will not until that that program time allows it to be active. >> Okay. Not that I was going there at midnight. No, no. No, I totally get it. Cuz I can see that being a hot fun spot. Yeah. Penn Meadows is the same way now. It It kicks on at 7:00 and at 10:00, it won't come on anymore. Yeah. That makes sense. Okay. Thank you. Small comment here. So, I'm looking at a seating area around the splash pad. So, I see some very decent seating area. Just want to make sure when it's built, please leave enough seating for the parents, waiting parents. Yeah. Yeah. And grandparents. Yes. Right. We We have a lot of furniture that we're ordering. Um you'll see a lot of seat wall rock around it. That's You can sit on that as well. Okay. Like at Penn Meadows, where there's Those are great. And we're also trying to use a lot of gra- grass space between the splash pad and the existing playground because we think a lot of people will be using both areas. So, the grass area they can throw their blanket down on the grass and then be able to see both play areas. When this was in design, we did consider that what Shelly just said, the playground versus the splash pad and where parents might be seating if they have kids at the playground versus at the splash pad that they can kind of see both at the same time. Good. Good. Now, something just came to my mind. Is there any regulation or whatever like food trucks and ice cream trucks and stuff come out there and park? They have to have a permit. They're supposed to have a permit as long as they have a permit. You know. >> Right. I can see that being Mhm. with the large congregation out there in the summer time. Question off the side. Anything else? About the splash pad? Very exciting. It was We'll keep you posted more as it as construction happens. The next next meeting I can probably give you more of an update on what's actually happening. So. And probably next June we'll all wear our bathing suits and go out there. Grand opening. Sure. Push the button. Who knows? I'll I'll sit up all day and we'll be more excited to push the button. Okay. We'll move right along. Guys up next with our parks report. Alrighty. Um I'll just buzz through this. Still working on um Hy-Vee Center. There's still you know a few issues here and there that we're working through. Um electric electrical some of the doors um They had a final what they call a final review final tabs report where they they're trying to fine tune the HVAC systems. Um They found one component that wasn't wired correctly. So it wasn't giving a it was giving a false reading. So hopefully getting that system will level out. Um I'm just run through these. Police Department we did some uh tile work there. We replaced uh the building settled a little bit over time and some of the flooring tiling had cracked. So we replaced those. City Hall quite a list of stuff. Um Try to go through the big ones. Heating and cooling contractor with um called back in. We're we're having problems with the circulation of hot water to the restrooms. It takes so long to get hot water to the sinks. Um but they're is to be a loop or should have been a loop, that always circulates hot water. So, as soon as you turn the hot water on, wash your hands, it's warm, hot. So, they're looking at how they can make that improvement. Um, see. Is it a tankless hot water? No. It's not? No. That's weird. No, but it's but the restrooms are a quite quite a ways away from where the hot water Oh, the heater the hot water heater >> they pump hot water and just keep circulating so that line doesn't cool down. Interesting. Um, just some general stuff, uh, scheduled fire sprinkler system inspections, annual, um, elevator inspections certified by the state of Iowa. Those are things that we have to keep up on. Um, Renshaw House, um, Green Iowa, they're like a non-profit organization. They came in and performed a energy energy audit for us, um, just to see where the heat and cool cooling loss might be. Of course, the old house, the windows and certain areas. So, we're going to try making some minor improvements there that might help us out that, uh, summer and winter. Um, we're now overseeing the facility generators. That's all city generators. Um, we had to update the emissions log, created a new generators map database. This was a recommendation from the Iowa DNR recent emissions audit. They come in and do an audit if you have so many generators. Um, so we're working through the through those items. Um, moving right along into park operations, um, we finished we finished up with all of our equipment maintenance that we normally do in the wintertime. We're ready for spring. Hit the, you know, hit the ground with, uh, good equipment. Um, so we're good there. We did have to clear a bunch of snow at the beginning of the month. That fun little snowstorm that we had. So, um got that over with and we we took off the golf course snow equipment. Knock on wood. >> Knock on wood, no more snow. I heard some other compliments from uh e-bikers that they rode their bike and the snow was removed and they got to tell them forever green road and snow drift >> I they couldn't get to the trail. >> Yes. Yes. Yeah. And no one Kudos to North Liberty for clearing the trail. >> I've mentioned stuff. I've mentioned I've mentioned that to Coralville and they they have that their policy. They don't clear trails. So, um let's see. We We have um taken advantage of some of our better weather and we've seeded a lot of areas. Um Penn Meadows, Owen Skelley infield, that's the the baseball field in Penn Meadows. Um a bunch of seeding around Centennial um Park, Hy-Vee Center, Main Street property. That's where the fire station is going to get built. And um other areas that we damaged over the winter with snow plow equipment. I take care of that snow plow blade, you know. So, that's taken care of now. Um we finished seeding yesterday. And just in time for all this rain. So, hopefully it will take right off. Um we have been clearing out out some of the our fence lines like around the public works area or we have a fence fencing complex. And over time that stuff weaves through it and grows into it. So, we've cleared that out. And we did the same over at Penn Meadows Park right right behind um Frog Hollow. If you get a chance uh I don't know if you can't see my pictures. There's a pretty good uh before and after. It's there on the bottom. Wow. So, that's uh Yeah, that's what it used to look like and that's what it looks like now. But, those trees were here. No, trees were there. We We think those cedars were planted Yeah. back in the '60s. No, really. Yeah, cuz we looked back at some old um aerial photos and those trees were there. They've been there a while. Yeah, I know that that opens that up. So, it gives fresh air through there, too. >> Yeah. So, those are the kind of things we like to do monster trimmer hedge trimmer Yeah, yeah. No, yeah, but a raised brush hog Yeah, yeah, exactly. It's a boom arm. Yeah. Yeah. So, those are some of the things we like to tackle before we get really busy into our upcoming season. Uh let's see what else here. Um if you've noticed, we've done some spring uh landscaping work on our roundabouts, our streetscapes, around our building sites. We just kind of tidy up everything, cut down some plants that um shouldn't be cut down before winter. There are certain plants that can be cut down before winter and some that can't, so we're taking care of those right now. Um another good picture in there is the prairie burn. Um we we burned off the bioswale at Centennial Park. It really helps with keeping the invasives out cuz the prairies they love prairie. Um when things burn, it just rejuvenates things and it will come up really really really really green and nice. Um we also did out at Goose Lake some of the wetland area out there. Um this is our second time of doing that. Um trying to get ahead of some of the invasives out there as well. Um we hit perfect weather that day. Wind was in the perfect direction. Um everything worked out great. So, couldn't couldn't complain on that. Um and ball season is has begun. So, we've been my crew's been out there um getting fields ready that um the NLCBS, the ball league the club for for the town they met last weekend. They did a huge clean up, picked up all the leaves I get collected and into the fence line. Um just getting fields ready. Our first tournament was supposed to be this weekend, but it got canceled. Um I kind of had a feeling because it is Easter weekend. Yeah. So. Mhm. Um that one got canceled, but we have a whole we have every weekend's full of tournaments. So, yep. And then of course the weekly NLCBS, the town league, uh we'll we'll practice and start playing as well. Um let's see. One Oh, on the March 20th, the the DNR um came out to Liberty Center Pond. They come out twice a year, stock 2,000 trout. Um 2,000? Yep, 2,000. But there were enough guys around there trying to catch them that it probably is only 100 now. Yeah. Did you see them out there? Is that an actual catch? Yeah, that's an actual catch. Yeah. Yeah, my goodness. I mean, it was crazy. Now, that they're not all that size. They usually put three three or four of those in that size. Yeah. Mhm. >> Yeah. I didn't think that that's real good sportsmanship, you know, that they put the fish in and there's a guy on the other side going Well, that's what they It's a it's an opportunity for Oh, yeah. for fishing. Um that's what when you pay your trout stamp, you have to buy a trout stamp and a fishing license, and that's what pays for trout stocking. Okay. And we just are lucky to have the program here. Yeah. No, I'm not complaining. It was more joking. It's it's really kind of cool. I mean Mhm. Oh, yeah. You get to fish for trout in the love it. Yeah, exactly. It's neat to see kids fishing. Just just going out with their friends and >> so once the water gets above 68 degrees, um 70 degrees, that's when it's lethal for trout, so um we don't Yeah, so we want want them fished out. >> Yeah. And of course, we've had a lot of planning and administration this this month. Um I tended attended meetings with Shady or engineering um and staff regarding the new firehouse project that we're planning. Um parks and water department future expansion projects. Um I think I mentioned last time the expansion on the parks, expansion on the water department is maintenance facility. However, once we get ours built, hopefully this summer, um that's when the fire department uh they're going to move down into those facilities. They're going to tear down the fire department then, so they can have a fresh clean slate there. Um but they needed a place to put all the fire trucks, so that's why we're going to get our expansion. We We've been planning expansions for quite a while, but um this going to we decided that might be the best in the best interest to build those and let the fire department have them for 18 months. Um of course, we've been we've talked about splash pad, but we've had a lot of planning meetings and bid openings for splash pads. Um also attended the Jasper Avenue and Evergreen Road roundabout. That's was supposed to start today, but of course, or yesterday should supposed to start yesterday, but of course, all this rain and everything. Wait, where's the sign? >> out there. Quick start. Quick start all the way. Evergreen Road and Jasper. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. There's a pretty quick turnaround on that, so hopefully by fall it's going to be usable. That's going to be good. Yeah. Really good. >> Different than Corvallis length. Yeah. So I we we get involved because all that landscaping and stuff we have a lot of input and request of what all goes in there for landscaping material. Well, there's a plan for a trail at some point. >> to say how soon about that. That's one thing that I've been promoting trying to Yeah. We wanted to make that connection between North Liberty and Tiffin. That's for sure. Yep. And that where they're putting that roundabout in, thinking of this right, isn't there like a gigantic I don't know if it's electrical or whatever. Is the roundabout are we moving that or is it literally going around that? Good question. I I heard that was a >> I thought they might design it around it. >> map I showed saw it ends up on the left side. The roundabout goes that far off right direction. That pole will be on the on the left side. on the left side instead of the right side. >> Doesn't it go down trees in the roundabout because the car would have to cross. presentation that was Yeah, very interesting engineering. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's been a big conversation of everywhere, but the presentation that was on online had the red dot on the said that was on the left side. So, it's going to be interesting how that that works. >> But they have a traffic control plan for every stage of that. So, you can still navigate around. Sure. So, yep. Yeah, that's going to be Yeah, it's going to be much used Yeah. Yes. >> section. But the picture that it's a pretty picture that you're going to decorate it with. So, Um Of course, we've been Shelley and and Rec we've been attending Shive Elementary meetings and staff with staff regarding the upcoming Rec Center parking lot project. Um that's coming up here real soon. So, it's going to it's on the north and west side of the Rex Center and library. I always say east and west sides of the center. Yeah. >> Do you? Cuz in the the whole north parking lot will be available at and the south lot will be available. >> Yeah. So, I always say it's the east and west side that we're what we're working on right now. Yeah, we're working on that. However, we're going to have um, some work done on the back side and the trail's going to get reconfigured coming up from the trail tying into the Rex Center. Nice. Kind of tying in the Ranch at the Hall house property with the community center property and then from Cherry Street up to current sidewalks out by the building and there's going to be another sidewalk angle. Um, there's also going to be a new sidewalk or trail from the existing trail Mhm. uh, which is on the east side of the property up to the building. Oh, good. Yeah. Is there going to be a speed bump from the library entrance to across the Okay. >> Two speed tables. Two? Oh, good. Okay. So, it's going to come up and then flatten out and then go down. Okay. >> Cuz that is a really dangerous They will zip through there. Oh, it's horrible. Yeah, kids running. Yeah. We had the We just We decided to go with the speed table just because of snow removal. If you had a speed hump, you Okay. wouldn't be able to make All right. I think you said that once before. Let's see. Some of this is stuff that's G Wiz. This Um, with the You got crowd control >> Yeah, I know. Crowd control at uh, Centennial Park. We're trying We've had some meetings regarding how we're going to navigate that whole our whole season of events out there. Um, how we're going to do parking, which events are going to require parking with uh the entire park or which events are going to just require um parking lot and maybe side um the road. So, we're looking at roping off all the way around the perimeter on the road so people can nose in 30 ft. Um but still keep them out of the of the access to the park. So. I'm trying to determine which events are going to require what type of parking, which require what type of staff we have to have on hand, so. So, that's staff that you have to provide? Yep. For for parking, yep. Mhm. Yep. So, I think we have what, nine We have 10 10 events out there. They're all pretty good size events this summer. All righty, so those are extra things that we haven't had in the past. Okay. Um Let's see. Uh we're still recruiting seasonal employees. Um up until a couple weeks ago, we only had about five hired. I think we're at seven. And we have three that are onboarding. Um we've interviewed three. Um Two have accepted, so we're getting pretty close to our 15 that we're going to need need for the season. We have a couple We have a couple more interviews coming up, but I think we're going to I think we're going to hit our quota Good. on employees. Um see here, to finish up, the city was awarded the Arbor Day Foundation Tree City USA designation. This is our 31st consecutive year of um receiving that award. We had to meet certain requirements to make that happen. Um along with that, uh we were awarded a tree grant from uh Mid-American Trees Please, which is it's a minor grant, but we've we've got it every year we apply for so. >> Good. We're going to take that money and and plant some trees out at Centennial Park. Start filling in a little more out there. With that any questions you might want to ask ask of me. Anything else for Guy? I don't I think he's he's been busy enough. I don't know. Yep, we have been keeping very very busy. And what does Tim take the pictures? Uh you know I the crew um they help me out quite a bit and they snap pictures. Sweet photos. Yeah, if it's worthy of a photo take it. >> That's good. I only use a fraction of what they send me so. That's too bad we can't put them up screen or something while we're at our at our meetings. They are on a city site. I know they go of course. Same report goes to the city council. We were at the reservoir and we did see a beaver. We just wondered if it was the relocated beaver. I just wanted to tell you we saw him. Pretty soon you'll be wearing body cam. Yeah, yeah the we get calls like that frequent. People who live close to the creek or a pond. One day they wake up and their trees are all cut down in their backyards. Oh yeah. So we we go out there and we live trap them and then we we take them to a new home. Um that's good. Lots of lots of news. Anything else? Well then we'll move along to Shelley and Rex Center report. All right. Good evening everyone. Um a little bit new on my monthly report at the beginning I'm going to kind of do an update section as you'll see there. Um just with uh a lot of our reporting is seems past tense of month before so we have a lot of stuff like I says coming up that uh will keep us busy so I kind of created this update section. Uh first thing there is summer activity guide is out to the public right now and registration begins on Monday the 6th and 8th for non-residents especially for swim lessons. Those are the two different dates. Other programs might all start on the 6th but uh summer swim lessons is a big one and so uh we do have the two different dates April 6th for residents April 8th for non-residents uh for summer swim lessons. Um Ashley has started operating uh swim lesson scholarships. We had a Azariah Grimes Memorial Fund that donated some money. He loved swimming and water and so uh they wanted us to use and create this scholarship program and so Ashley finally has kicked that off. Uh so I'll probably report more on that as we continue to start that new new offering. Meaning those are free lessons offered? Yeah, there's a form that they have to fill out to be then awarded the scholarship money to go towards swim lessons. Yes. Is that something where when those funds sort of are depleted then that kind of ends or is that something we're committed to keeping year to year? Uh right now we just have the amount that was donated. Um Ashley I think is looking at other opportunities on how can we keep it going Mhm. or do fundraising to put more money in every year. Um so we're looking at but right now we just have the funds that was donated on that memorial fund. Uh next thing on there is uh like I said the east and west parking lot. Um that is a capital project that will begin soon. It will impact the entire summer season of the community center, library, Ranch House, everything we have going on. You know, close to the recreation center. Um partial lots, parking spaces will be limited um and changing as the work progresses from east side to west side, etc. Uh so, just another reminder, if you can look for alternative ways to get to the Rec Center, Community Center, pool, etc., library, um this is the summer to dive into those with the parking lot being under construction on the east and west sides. Uh like I said, we'll continue to have some parking uh the north and south sides um as a work on entry points. Bike to the pool, do we have plenty of bike racks? Plenty of bike racks, yep. And we'll even think about maybe getting more. Yeah. So, So, I just wanted to bring that up to everybody's attention. That is something that we're going to work on. And again, depending on how it goes, I know staff, you know, we've always put in our minds, do we have to pivot and maybe move an event to a different location? We might consider that. Um but we're just going to see how it goes and see if we have to pivot or not. So, more to follow on that. Um other thing I wanted to mention was just upcoming events. We have the Buddy Clue Trail and egg coloring this Saturday, April 4th. We have the Community Center open house coming up on April 8th. Uh spring shed hunt in Muddy Creek cleanup is scheduled for April 11th. Uh a swim safety day, April 19th. And we have a couple new senior sing-alongs scheduled one in April, one in May. Um just a few new things coming up that did not get into the activity guide and/or coming up before um you know, this weekend etc. So, just wanted to kind of provide that update information. Um wrestler report is pretty similar to my past reports. Um just uh enrollment information of past programs. Um trying to think if there's anything uh we did have a fluid running aqua class that Ashley per uh had in the pool area indoor pool area. Uh that had five enrollees and I think she's going to do some more. So, that's just again another new avenue that we're pursuing. Uh at the end of the month of March, uh we did hold the underwater egg hunt. We had two divisions and about 57 to 57-60 participants in each category. So, about a total of 115 participants in those two divisions. Um In the month of March, we did have Saturday swim lesson sessions start up. That was just for the lower one through four levels. Uh but it is just another session uh that Ashley was able to fit into the schedule of the indoor pool along with other swim lessons taking place. Uh let's see. Jonathan did a good job with his pee wee pee wee baseball. Had about 47 participants in that. Offered some spring break mixers. Um but they didn't go due to a lack of enrollment, but at least he offered them. Um, what was it what was it supposed to like a mixer like a different sports type >> Just kind of okay. >> during like a four-day offering then just mix it up a little bit with different sport interests. I think he got some of the pee wee ones to go but not the school aged ones didn't go. So we'll keep trying. That's one thing we do. We try and offer it. If it goes great, it doesn't revamp. Maybe the day didn't work. Maybe the time didn't work and then try it again. Uh, before and after school program was big during the month of March with spring break week. Uh, having that we had a couple all days. So you can see the numbers there. Uh, as far as that program continues to be a strong one and very well welcomed to by the community. Uh, let's see. Anything else? We did have uh, the Chinese calligraphy class was something new. We had tai chi for kids. We at least offered again. Didn't get a lot of interest, but again just new items that we're trying to offer to the community and see if they'll take hold. Uh, for the four dates in March we did have 128 meals that we served to the senior luncheons. For those four dates, so continue to get a pretty much average between 35 to 40 per date. So Uh, during the month of March we did have the Optimus pancake breakfast in also the uh, That was just another community event that's held at the recreation center. Uh, continues to be a good turnout. Um two new items. Uh Matt Messick worked with the Forever Green Nursery on the Container Garden Made Easy and the Plan Your Light Landscape. Um and had good turnouts for those two programs. Uh and then we had a Maintaining Modern Cars. This was the second time we've done that. Uh contract individual and last time we had about, I would say 15 or so participate. We only had two, but again, it's something that uh he'll offer uh just as something totally different than our normal sports programming. Uh indoor pool season just continues with lap swimmers, aqua fitness classes, and swim lessons. Uh we did have on the outdoor pool, you may or may not have driven by when they were doing uh outdoor concrete work of the outdoor pool. Um there were sections of the concrete wall that uh needed to be cut out and removed and re-concrete. Uh due to again, the age of the facility, these are things that we're experiencing. Um so, the concrete guys came in, re-concreted the certain areas, and then we are now having the a contractor uh coming in to do the caulking and um re-painting in preparation for outdoor pool season. Uh Ashley's been busy with applications, interviews, hiring for all of the summer operations. Uh she's got it pretty much down pat. Um they do a great job of getting the individuals we need to operate an outdoor pool. Rest of the information pretty much is normal, just revenue sharing information. Um I don't have anything else that I can think of and I'm open to any questions you might have. A busy place. I'm always I'm always amazed when I look at that revenue figure, you know, It's busy and then it's busy. Yeah. Did we The the issue we had in the indoor pool with the ceiling, whatever they were called. >> panels? Yeah, that is that been remedied? Did we get >> not been remedied. We've put that on hold because one of the capital projects coming up is redoing the pool locker rooms, kind of similar to how we did the wreck locker rooms. Right now in the pool locker rooms, it's just the cinder block walls and paint and we repainted and repainted and it just again with age does not look good, so we're going to have that as a capital project to get those re-tiled like we did on the wreck side. >> Wreck side. Go with tiling and just get them updated. And because of that, we're going to hold off on the acoustical panels and do it hopefully at the same time. So there's only one closure versus multiple closures. So that it's in the works. We have a plan for it. It's just holding off and maybe doing it combined. Yeah, makes sense. Anything else? All the basketball over, Brian? Or Yep, all the basketball's over. Now we're in the baseball season. Now we're in baseball. We probably take in uh I don't know, probably $50,000 in baseball rentals just for tournaments. That's not anybody that's renting the fields as a team. So, just tournament income alone for the season it would probably be around $50,000. So, thereabouts. Like I said, that's without anything really counting the Skelly field or any rentals at uh Kojer or Quail. So, For the tournaments, does the city get any percentage of concessions or is that privately >> NLCBS does all the concessions. They do? >> They So, they take in the money and and get that. So, we used to let the groups renting the fields go in and use our concession stand, but then NLCBS had to take all their stuff out and then put all their stuff in on that Monday. So, that seemed to be a pain. Yeah, I'm sure Yeah, I can So, now we just NLCBS just does it and you know, they do just like they would on during their during the week, but they do it on the weekends and probably do a pretty good job and it's probably good to go back into their coffer and make some money there. So, Yeah. Kind of a central hub. >> the facility, correct? NLCBS is not. >> NLCBS is not. >> They We work we partner with them. The actual concession stand, they paid for half of that. Okay. Okay. Like $250. >> I I just was trying to figure out. So, that's separate. I know that I should know this, but I And for that, North Liberty base What is it? Community baseball? North Liberty baseball softball. That's what NLCBS is. Coralville. NLC See, Coralville. Tiffin Tiffin is in there, too, but I don't think they have a letter yet. I don't think we've created a word for that yet. So, What a What a hidden hub we are here. I mean, you look at the cars from all all different counties are parked here for Well, you think Yeah, you think of the numbers like going to the Palestra and then eventually out there at uh the facility out there and then the ball diamonds. I mean, the amount of people that come into this town is We're We're a We're a hub, you know, and what that brings to businesses in town. And it is a pain during the time they're here because of parking and stuff like that, but the amount of money they have to spend coming here is is what all communities want. >> Good to see families and kids out there, you know, doing outdoor activities. the designation Yeah. Um the open house is done once once a year or once in spring or once in the fall? >> a year. Oh, I see. Yeah. Um so over the past few years, do you see after the open house the membership the increase of membership or I'm in past years what we've done is if you came in, you got a percentage off even if you had a membership. This year we kind of changed it to you can't have a membership and you come in and we give you 20% off a annual membership of a new one that you get. So it's kind of we're kind of tweaking it a little bit this year cuz some people were just coming in, getting the little slip and then walking out, so they didn't really come to the open house for the right reason, I guess I would say. So we're trying to encourage people to come in. You know, they can still get their 20% off, but they can't have a pass right now. So they would be getting a new pass, so. And these are the things that, you know, they're pub- publicized and all, but again, if you have got friends and neighbors, new people in the community, let them know what's going on. This is a great opportunity for if you have new neighbors to send them down to the Rec Center 4:30 to 6:30 next Wednesday for them to check check things out. I think you're you're used to about every day have people coming in to uh so we have new people coming to town, new families. Anything else for Shelly? Kind of when they you went over all the upcoming things, I think. Yeah, we did go in and then packet itself uh you'd see the flyer attachments that were all part of that um and again the packet information was available to the public, too. So, um if you get questions, you can always refer them to the packet information if they're trying to look at some of the information that we've discussed, but yeah, all the flyers are there on Right. uh those upcoming events that we just mentioned. We can hand these to our new neighbors and Yes. Thanks. The ambassadors, yeah. Oh, hey. So, we we talked about the clean creek cleanup. So, that is we have an organization kind of scouts or something kind of specifically >> have with that. The Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts, and now the 4-H Scouts Green Castle uh 4-H um Clover Kids, they come out and help. So. And it's amazing how much stuff you get. Yeah. So, we normally make it from the Rec Center Yeah. basically up from Penn Street down to Golf View Drive. Um that's about and the Boy Scouts will normally go to the south and work their way to the north um from Evergreen Road this way. So, we try to cover that whole section the best we can. And a good rain today will wash a lot of stuff into the creek that'll be there. Yeah. It'll be there for you. Yep. Mhm. Okay, we have any anything else? Old business? Just want to I just want to remind everybody that North Liberty um the high schools having a fundraiser this weekend at 8:00 and so make sure that Pancakes? Pancakes. I mean, who doesn't love a pancake? And Anyway, and I think tickets are $12 a person or something like that. Yeah. Saturday? Saturday, starts at 8:00. Anything else? Looks like our next meeting is scheduled for May 7th. Okay. First Thursday of the month. Anything else? I'll let a motion. I'll move. I'll second. Got a motion and a second. Any objection to adjournment? Meeting is