Title: Teen Dialogue Project
Published: 2026-08-10 14:50:15
Video ID: QSml2nM1U1I

something up and you're just reading the thing, you're not doing your own research. You're just like, "Oh, okay, so I'm just taking what this tells me is fact and you're not doing the work to find the answer yourself. And finding information is a really important skill. Like, not even just in academic writing or anything, but in just life. >> I just think there's a way higher incentive for students to use AI just cuz it's like if they have an assignment, for example, it's more about just doing it, getting it done, getting a grade than actually learning something from it. Like, because that's been more heavily valued recently than like actually trying to understand the topic in which the assignment's about. >> I feel like I know like some people who like used to rely on ChatGPT to give them scenarios and stuff, but like they didn't they don't understand that like whenever you're using like AI or ChatGPT, it's programmed to kind of just like say what they think you would like. So, it's not like you're growing yourself, you're just keeping yourself in that bubble and you think that you're making yourself better when you're not. >> For my math test, sometimes I plug in our notes and our practice work and have whatever AI I'm using to try and explain to me how it's done or what to do in case I'm lost, just like try to help me and then it knows all the notes, it knows what I've been getting wrong and right. So, that's why it creates a study plan for me or it tells me what things that it seems like I'm doing wrong or steps you can like try and focus on and use those. >> I know that like some people use it like but I don't know. There's just like almost something embarrassing about it. Like, if I do use it, I'm like, "Oh, that's so embarrassing. Like, I didn't do it myself." And I feel like I like should have. >> When seen like a good painting done by someone you like appreciate talent and like it's beautiful because like it's hard to paint well and it's like wow like they did that. But AI is just like they just like spun it out of nowhere in like one second and it's like you don't like actually appreciate the hard work going into making something beautiful. I feel like people aren't even really using their brains as much anymore. Like they're just oh I oh what's like 8 + 7? I'll just ask ChatGPT. What's this? Like they're we have brains. We can we can do stuff with our brains sometimes. I think there is a lot more to school than learning the formulas, learning these things because it teaches you how to be like a human in the world, right? It teaches you how to interact and work with other people. Um and it teaches you how to problem solve and persevere. Um and I think back to COVID. I think back to online school and uh watching videos instead of being taught at a smart board and stuff like that. And I think we could repurpose some things we use in education with AI, but it vastly needs to change its effect on the environment and it vastly needs to change its effect on like human autonomy. I feel like it would be better just to keep your work, ask your teachers for help and stuff versus asking AI. And that kind of goes like just beyond school and I don't want people who just like they confide with AI or listen like people like fall in love with AI which is just like I feel like we're kind of to a point where we just need to like take a step back and say like this is really worth it. Like why am I talking to AI when I could be talking to a real person?