Title: North Liberty Planning and Zoning meeting on April 7, 2026
Published: 2026-04-07 23:46:56
Video ID: OoufIDP7aqk

All right. Let's begin to the mic here. I've got 6:30 on my clock, so we'll go ahead and call to order the Planning Commission meeting for April 7th. If we could start with a roll call, please. Ahearn. Bathke. Here. Janiser. Here. Mikkelson. Here. Schmerbach. Here. Willer. Here. Yoder. Here. Great. Up first will be approval of the agenda. I'd entertain a motion to approve. I move, Bathke. And do we have a second? I'll second. All in favor, say I. I. >> I. Any opposed? All right, motion carries. Agenda's approved. Moving on to item number three, public comment on any topic not on the agenda. Do we have public comment? No. Okay, great. Item number four is a zoning map amendment. We'll start with a staff presentation. Now I'm going to be self-conscious about this microphone here. Um Okay, so this is a rezoning of QuickTrip Inc. This property is located at the southwest corner of West Penn and North Jones Boulevard. And this is a rezoning from I-1 light industrial to C-2 highway commercial district. Uh property is approximately 3.46 acres. Uh as I mentioned, the L.L. Pelling L.L. Pelling is one parcel here and it's all zoned I-1 industrial. L.L. Pelling's been here for quite some time. Um but that that property has remained I-1. Uh when we went through our comprehensive plan effort several years ago, uh this property, at least the undeveloped portion, was designated urban high intensity. And at least with respect to one of our approval standards, um the I-1 zoning is not uh consistent with the urban high intensity uh land use classification. So, uh in this case, YA Comprehensive Planning uh is doing a good thing. It's it's looking to what the future of of this development should be. Uh certainly, we didn't think it's in the city's best interest uh to have something of an industrial nature at that. Um we we felt it should be something that was more urban commercial uh or or perhaps even higher intensity uh a residential. So, uh when when Creek Trip became interested in this, we indicated a a rezoning would be appropriate in order to allow the use. And and um they being such good partners to work with said, "No problem. We we have no problem requesting the C2 zoning." And and so that's what you see uh before you tonight. Uh we did have a virtual good neighbor meeting on March 25th. Um it was just uh me and the applicant in attendance. Uh we do not have any objections to the request. Uh we do have couple related items uh that you'll be seeing next month. Um we have a preliminary subdivision plat. Again, it's one parcel. Um so, there's going to be a preliminary subdivision plat and subsequently final plat uh for the lot that they will create. And a preliminary site plan just kind of indicates uh some of the comments we received. Access off of North Jones, um which will line up with the street uh across the east side of North Jones. As well as an access on West Penn. Um we are very concerned about um allowing additional accesses off of Penn. Uh so, we indicated that if if they were to propose a access off Penn, they'd need to construct a median. And so, that site plan does show that. But, we'll we'll talk about that a bit more next month. Uh we do have one finding that the rezoning to C2 uh would meet the approval standards enumerated in section 165.09 and then staff recommends the commission accept that listed finding and forward the request to the city council with the recommendation for approval. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have an applicant presentation? Good evening. My name is Casey Boncher, real estate manager at QuickTrip and QuickStar. Thank you first for reviewing this rezoning tonight. Really Russ, I think went over it pretty well here. We're proposing we'll be proposing at the May planning commission meeting our site plan which does include our generation three convenience store and 10 dispensers on site and an attached car wash. Which I think does fall into as a permitted use into the C2 zoning. But I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Great, thank you. Okay, any public comment? Great. Any questions or comments from the commission? Seems pretty straightforward. >> to be in line with the zoning. Okay, well, there's no questions. I'd entertain a motion. I move that the planning commission accept the listed finding and forward the zoning map amendment to the city council with a recommendation for approval. Do we have a second? I'll second that motion. Can we have a roll call vote, please? Willer. Aye. Schmirbach. Aye. Genezer. Aye. Bathke. Aye. Mickelson. Aye. Yadi. Aye. Motion carries. All right, moving on to item number five, a preliminary subdivision plat. We'll start with the staff presentation. Okay, thank you. This is the Civic Campus subdivision plat which uh several parcels into one and combines the city hall and police station into one parcel. Um officially dedicates the right-of-way for the South Dubuque uh realignment and then creates officially the parcel of of the property that the city acquired for the realignment. Um you would will recall that the Front Street right-of-way just north of Cherry Street was previously vacated so there's no need to do anything with that. Um so this just really formalizes what you see outside and Um so here's current zoning. It's it's P public use district and C1B general commercial district and the comprehensive plan future land use amendment public semi-public and urban medium intensity. So uh the the zonings are consistent with the future land use. Uh here's preliminary plat relatively straightforward just shows one lot and then the second lot is um at the corner of Dubuque and Front. Uh we do not have any objections to this request. And again we do have one finding would achieve consistency with approval standards. And then staff recommends planning commission accept that listed finding and forward the request to the city council with a recommendation for approval. Great. >> Thank you. Doesn't look like we have public comment. So any questions or comments? None for me. >> garages on lot two? Uh no. That's on the adjacent lot. That's the remnant parcel. Yep. From the acquisition of the building instead of before. >> Just a just a just grass grass area. Um our our hope long term is you know that that lot could be combined with a redevelopment opportunity in there and um long-term contemplating uh I shouldn't say long-term, medium-term um contemplating changes to the zoning to support the built environment that you see out there like Reds um has as a very minimal setback. Um Sugar Bottom Bikes as well as the ice cream are all pushed up towards the um the second historic building the um on Cherry Street. They're all with a minimal setback. Um we want to encourage that type of development and redevelopment especially um in our old town. Um we kind of have some parts of our code that still remain antiquated and have still large setbacks which promote parking in the front which really did we don't want to emphasize in this. We want to emphasize walkability. Uh the design that we're working on for the fire station would have those reduced setbacks to kind of um really enhance that kind of urban character that we're trying to build along this corridor. So, hopefully with that um corner there would be C1B. I I envision it being like C1 which would be a neighborhood commercial district with those minimal setbacks and we can hopefully encourage some somebody to take the step to do something really cool in that area. Um you know, especially with what's been done with with kind of our city um street fest it's been super popular. Um and so, you know, we we kind of went through the Cherry Street reinvestment charrette and kind of looked at that as possibly being a festival street and and doing things to promote, you know, more activities like that. Um you know, the more more we can bring people to the to the heart of North Liberty is is what we want to do. Great. Any other questions? No. No. If there's no other questions, I'd entertain a motion. I move that the Planning Commission accept the listed finding and forward the preliminary subdivision plat to the City Council with a recommendation for approval. Do we have a second? I'll second that. May we have a roll call vote, please? Wheeler? Aye. Bafky? Aye. Schmierbach? Aye. Mikkelson? Aye. Yadi? Aye. Janizar? Aye. All right, motion carries. Up next is approval of previous minutes. I would entertain a motion to approve the previous minutes. I move to approve the pre- previous minutes. There you go. I'll second it. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Okay. Previous minutes approved. Item number seven is planning updates. Yeah, so just a a look into the future a bit for the May 5th meeting. Again, mentioned the Quickstar preliminary subdivision plat and the Quickstar preliminary site plan. Those aren't shown here cuz they've previously been shown. Also, have a couple of subdivisions in the I-380 industrial area, which we don't see a lot of site plans are, so it's exciting to see some building additions out there to expand our industrial base. So, the first one on the left is 2685 Stoner Court, kind of where Stoner Court makes that bend to the south. Um area in gray is the existing building and the um Yes. Fuchsia, I don't know That's the right color. It's almost like is that the new building addition? So, we appreciate the you know, continued investment into our city. Uh and on the right hand side is 2740 Stoner and that's at the very end. Um but the smaller um subdivision and and improvement to the parking lot. So, we are analyzing that and reviewing it for consistency and feedback and and we'll bring those to you uh on May 5th. Great. Okay. Anything else? Do you know what business it is? Um the one on the left the one on the left is detergents um for for cleaning. Mhm. Um and so a pretty substantial business expansion there. Yeah. Mhm. Uh and the right is I believe it's a truck repair. So we're going to want to look at the parking lot and things like that and and to see if it's if they're doing outdoor storage is some of the preliminary concerns we have is that truly a parking lot or is it an outdoor storage area? We have special requirements for storage areas. Um particularly if you're driving up I-380, that's kind of visibility into our into our city. So it's just a couple of things we're looking at. Have we been able Have you been able to announce yet the tenant on the property from last month? Not yet. Hopefully soon. Great. Anything else? No. All right. I'd entertain a motion to adjourn. I'll motion. We have a second? I'll second that. All in favor say I. I. I. Any opposed? All right. Meeting adjourned.