Title: North Liberty Library Board Meeting on July 20, 2026
Published: 2026-07-21 12:44:30
Video ID: VXKr1vmUFMk

this July 2026 meeting of the North Liberty Library Board of Trustees to order. First item on the agenda is public comment. Seeing no members of the public in the gallery. Move on to the next item, approval of minutes. I do see all four members who were in attendance in the last meeting in attendance tonight. So, we do have a quorum. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes from June? >> So moved, Stephanie. Do I have a second? >> Second. >> All in favor say I. >> I. >> I. All oppose. Nay. Hearing no nays. The the June uh nits are approved. Next item on the agenda is staff introduction. We're joined tonight by Nick Shimman, adult services librarian. Thank you for joining us, Nick. So, I have to swap these. Hopefully this this doesn't cause a huge problem. Light stayed on. That's a good sign. [laughter] Okay. Hopefully this will transfer up there maybe. Okay, we may it may flip back and forth um a couple times here. Long as I get the sound right. Okay, the sound should be working right. Um so I'm Nick Shim. I'm the adult services librarian at the library. Um I'm approaching 20 years as a librarian for those of you who don't know me. Um I've been here for a little over three years now. Um, here I focus a lot on community connection and um civic conversation, allowing people to have the opportunity to connect and to to talk about things that they don't get to talk about in their their day-to-day life. Um, so this past fall and through winter and spring, we've had a couple of interesting opportunities um through grants and um communities of practice and that sort of thing. And so I'm going to talk primarily about a about two of them. Um in part because one doesn't really have an output that I can share with you. Um and so last fall we had the opportunity, sorry this is just not going well. Um to be accepted into um a couple of grant processes. One was through uh an international research company called IRex and the Urban Library Council uh to look at testing uh methods for bridge building, bringing people together across differences or uh whether that be socioeconomic ideals, whatever that may be. And so we did um two rounds of those. Uh that grant was worth about I believe it was around 16 $1,700 total. Um and that concluded this spring. Uh we did a lot of testing around um how we can best best bring people together. Um and so we tested dinners, we tested topics, we tested um methodology for discussions. And so that was really interesting. Um those of you who who know me a little bit um from my past um times here is I work with a group that formed organically in the community called the Good Neighbor Initiative. Uh and so we've been working to it started off with a book discussion how to how to improve the community through the lens of a book. Um we are currently working on one over the summer and then we'll start another one in the fall. Um so that gave us some insights on some things that had come up through those discussions. Um at that same time we were also um we tried out for a grant uh that was the teen dialogue accelerator which uh uh went through the application process as well as an interview process. Um and that was actually close to $16,000 um as well as a number of other cool things. Um, with that we also uh were able to um purchase some new podcasting equipment that dealt um very heavily with recorded conversations. So we wanted to make sure that the recording recordings were good. So we um wanted to have a good system in place. We also have some podcasting equipment at the library but uh it was up to eight people. So we wanted to make sure that we had eight inputs which we didn't have previously. Um the the pro that project was five to 10 conversations of teens 14 to 19 um in groups of approximately four to eight people um including our host. Uh with that we we worked with a student at the University of Iowa um a wonderful upand cominging librarian named Alli Hans uh who was the facilitator for all of those conversations. Um and it was supposed to be the the intention of that project was to be youthled um youth conversations. So she acted as our our youth um conversation leader. Um overall we had 10 conversations and involved um 38 voices in those conversations. There were some repeats but we had 38 total um individual participants in those conversations. Um and then in the late spring, the same company who does the back end for the the backend software for the uh that teen program also started working with another organization to do the American conversation project and that is a much larger uh conversation much larger project that now involves 155 libraries across the the country. um with people of all ages talking about what's important to them. So, it's basically the same idea, different population. That one we got um $500 for. Uh we got 250 for signing up and then 250 for uh being the first in Iowa to sign up. Um my youth uh host Ally for the conversations. um also served as the ambassador for the American Conversation Project and um through that I found out that we were not only the first in Iowa to sign up but the first to sign up for that project. So uh that was just kind of funny. Um so yeah, I wanted to share really um share the conversation that we had um from the adults. Uh they were very nice and the American Conversation Project was very nice and and produced this video for us. Um, and then you'll be the first to really see this compilation of um of thoughts about AI that the teens had. >> And I'll talk a little bit about that. Hopefully this calms down because it is just going back and forth. Okay, let's cross our fingers maybe. Sorry about that. It is not playing audio either. Well, this will be great. This is going very well technologically. Is it like Yeah. What's that? >> I was wondering if cords are not plugged in. >> I don't know why it's hopping like that. That seems to be staying for a second. Nope. >> I said it out loud. Well, rather than waiting for you guys to um for me to find this. I'm not sure where that went. I think it was in There it is. Um okay. >> A few of us met in my backyard. >> Sorry. Darn it. Technology. So, we're part of the Good Neighbor Book Club, a number of us here. And that summer, um, a few of us met in my backyard for just refreshments. And I just remember one of our book club members saying, "I just really wish I could walk up to my neighbor's door and knock on her door and say, "What redeeming quality do you see in the candidate that you're representing in your, you know, like she had in her like she knew her neighbor down the road had an opposing political sign in their front yard." And this woman genuinely wanted to be brave enough to be able to go knock on that door. And it wasn't to tell her off. She genuinely was curious. I was like, "That's progress." Being involved puts people in harm's way. >> And I'm thinking especially about immigrants at the moment. And, you know, we'd we'd love to hear what's going on and how are they handling things and is for $100 because it and how are they handling things and is there a way to assist and they wouldn't tell us for $100? >> Oh Jesus. >> Make them unsafe. >> Yeah. >> Oh my god. >> I apologize about this. >> It's not your fault. registration for something. I question even even hosting the events like is it safe for you to put your name on a governmental form? Like just even putting your name down that you're participating having that recorded depending on your status in in the country. How do we connect with people? How do we help people? How do we help people find the connection they're looking for if they don't um if they can't have that involvement? >> Harder than you would involvement >> harder than you would think to bring neighborhoods together like not a neighbor. >> I'm glad these are short [laughter] neighborhoods together to get people to come out to various things. for whatever their reasoning is. It's just harder than you would think. >> I think I I'd like to think that talking is really easy. Having a conversation is very deliberative. >> I'm just going to stop that one because that one's not as interesting as the teen one. So hopefully we'll do that. Um as I said, they they talked about many many topics. Um but all of them at some point wanted to talk about AI. So this was the first one that we compiled and put together. Um all of these are going to be all of the highlights uh in far in addition to this um will be available on the the libraries website. Uh it's currently under north liberty li north liberty library.org/te dialogue. Um there are through the the 10 conversations I believe I have around 220 highlights. They're not all going to be up there, but many of them will be if you're if you're interested in doing more of a deep dive on what they think about about it is. >> Okay, let's cross our fingers that this stays up here for a little bit. >> You're looking something up and you're just reading the thing. You're not doing your own research. You're just like, "Oh, okay. So, I'm just taking what this tells me is fact and you're not doing the work to find the answer yourself. And finding information is a really important skill like not even just in academic writing or anything but in just I just think there's but in just life like you have to be I just think there's a way higher incentive for students to use attentive AI just cuz it like if they have an assignment for example, it's more about just doing it, getting it done, getting a grade than actually I'm getting I'm getting faster. [laughter] >> Darn it something from it like because that's been more heavily valued recently than like actually trying to understand the topic on which the assignments about. But I feel like I know like some people who like used to rely on ChadBt to give them scenarios and stuff, but like they don't they don't understand that like whenever you're using like AI or CHBT, it's programmed to kind of just like say what they think you would like. So it's not like you're growing yourself. You're just keeping yourself in that bubble and you think that you're making yourself better when you're not. for my math test. Sometimes I plug in our notes in our practice work. They have whatever AI I'm using to try and explain to me how it's done or what to do in case I'm lost just like try and help me. And then it notes it knows what I've been getting wrong and right. So that when it creates a study plan for me or tells me what things that it seems like I'm doing wrongs you can like try and focus on use those. >> I know that like some people use it like but I don't know there's just like almost something embarrassing about it. Like if I do use it I'm like oh that's so embarrassing like I didn't do it myself and should have even though I've never used it like when seen like a good painting done by someone you like appreciate their talent and like it's beautiful because like it's hard to paint well and it's like wow like they did that but AI is just like you just like spawn it out of nowhere and one second and it's like you don't like actually appreciate the hard work going into making something beautiful. Mhm. beautiful. Mhm. >> People aren't even really using their brains as much anymore. Like they're just, "Oh, I Oh, what's like 8 plus 7? I'll just ask you LGBT. What's this?" But like the We have brains. We >> can do stuff with our brains sometimes. >> Okay. I think there's a lot more to school than learning the formulas, learning these things because it teaches you how to be like a human in the world, right? It teaches you how to interact and work with other people. Um, and it teaches you how to problem solve and persevere. Um, and I think back to co I think back to online school and uh watching videos instead of being taught at a smartboard and stuff like that. And I think we repurpose some things we use in education with AI. It vastly needs to change its effect on the environment and it vastly needs to change on like human autonomy. I feel like it would be better just to keep your work, ask your teacher for help and stuff versus asking AI. And that kind of goes like just beyond school. And I know a lot of people who just like they confide with AI or like see like people love with >> it's like a game now. >> Mhm. >> It's just like I feel like we're kind of to a point where we just need to like take a step back and say like is this really worth it? Why am I talking to AI when I could be talking to a real person? >> So thankfully that is all of it. [laughter] Um I really appreciate all of their time and um effort that they put or time and consideration that they put into the project. We were encouraged to share the things that we wish um we like that we learned that we could share with you all like that you could if you would have been there. Um, and the things I learned definitely over the the the winter spring were um, everyone wants the opportunity to be heard and to be to feel like they've been seen for who they really are and for what they feel. Um, and people don't feel like they get that opportunity right now. Um, it's really hard to get people to participate in that, but once they get going, it's hard to stop. People will keep going and going. Um, most of the the team conversations, for instance, we planned on 45 minutes to an hour. I don't think any of them were under an hour. They were usually about 90 minutes. And that was usually interrupted by pizza. [laughter] Um, for adults, CO may feel like it's done and over. For most of the teens, that was a big part of their life. Um, it is not done and over. they [clears throat] feel like um they lost their youth basically like they they had a future that they were supposed to have and co took that away. [clears throat] Um the comparison issues that we had when we were kids thinking back to like magazines and Photoshop is very much alive in social media. um not only with image but with life goals. Um they see kids that are that have jobs that have apartments and they think that they're not doing well enough. Um and um combined with parents using social media at home with schools using using AI for for grading or learning um and chatting with friends um over over technology instead of personto person. they 100% do not feel like they're getting the onetoone attention and consideration that they need. Um, [clears throat] and those are the big things that I came away from with uh there are a lot of little things um involving mental health um more on social media and addiction and all that sort of thing, but those are the things that I um really came away from. Um and if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer. I'll try and get those videos actually sent to you so you don't have them with the major interruptions. Um and then I'll be also releasing more of the topics as those um probably through social media and then um through other avenues as well. So yeah, >> thank you for joining us Nick and thanks for having the perseverance to >> Yeah, sorry about >> technical [laughter] issues. >> Sorry about that. >> Is it possible to send like a thank you note from us to the youth? I know, >> you know, privacy, but just >> like through you perhaps or >> Yeah. Um I mean >> that's amazing that they shared that information at that time. They're so wise. >> Yeah, I would um if if the board wants to send something I I have most of their emails um just through their their signups and and participation uh information. So um yeah, I can definitely send that if if the board wishes to do that. >> I think Can you indulge me and tell the story that you wrote? I think it's Yeah, the story about the kids who >> Oh, so yeah, there were um there were a couple times where they they had really good uh they had wonderful times together. Um and Jenny's referring to our second to last conversation where we had three groups of two friends each. So they each two of them each knew each other coming into it. Um and they had a wonderful time together. Two of the kids who came in were um I believe siblings who had just moved to the community and they were just like, you know, let's get involved somehow. Um by the end of it, they had such a good time talking about these issues that they were like exchanging uh contact information and social media. I've seen some of them hanging out together in the library. So, um I it was really great that they had um those connections. They're going to be going into the school year with with friends and and people they know um rather than going in cold. So, that was that was really cool. Um huge uh amount of thanks to Ally who our conversation host for trying to keep them together through that conversation. Um that is the other thing that the joy of trying to hear her like um bring them back to topic sometimes [laughter] was was highly entertaining >> and she did a wonderful job. >> Wonderful. Thank you. >> Thank you so much. >> Thank you Nick. [clears throat] Next, next item is the library director report. [clears throat and cough] >> All right. Well, we had year end this last month, so there is no new update for the 27 um fiscal year. We that would be next month, but uh I just did the year end for you guys, showing you where we ended the fiscal year. Um we did really well. We ended with about 96% total um expenditures for the fiscal year. Um, so I think we we handled ourselves well. We went over a couple areas, so it balanced itself out thankfully. Um, did anybody have any questions about the year-end totals? All right, moving on. So, board update. We thankfully got to keep Stephanie. [laughter] We were glad about that. There was a little bit of confusion there at the end of the uh collection period for the uh application. So, we were glad that that got cleared up. [snorts] And then the county position is still open. I I did put a couple feelers out with some folks that I know and I'm hoping to hear back. One of them has a family situation going on right now. So, um I think she might be interested, but it might take a bit for that to uh clear up. So, I'm not sure how that'll look. We will have our orientation um and refresher next month and election of officers happens in August. So, that'll be coming either way. It's always nice to have that sixth person. It's a small board anyway, so it's it's hard to meet that quorum if we don't have everybody, but hopefully we will get someone that's not they have put out a couple calls um on the county side and we've pushed it out on our social media, too. So, if you guys know anyone who lives in the county rather than in town, please share with them and that it's not a super heavy hard position to be on the board. I'd love to see if we can get that filled soon. Uh and [snorts] then on the policy discussion, I just kind of wanted to go through I sent uh the internet and uh technology policy to you guys that I kind of went through. I got some good feedback from Angela. I have not heard back from Grant, so I I didn't bring those policies before you yet, but I did want to share them to get them started just so you could see what what I've been kind of working on. Uh with that, just adding some guidance um for AI. I don't think that a policy is even possible honestly with AI. I think it's much more likely to do guidelines. Um, and our city is working on a set of guidelines. I don't think they'll call it a policy either at this point. We've had multiple meetings about that and I'll I'll share a little bit more about what um what I learned about at ALA um at the American Library Association conference and they also have a new resource that I haven't even delved into yet that they put out um actually just last week uh guidance for AI and libraries. They put out two different resources in the last couple weeks and one of them they're charging for and I'm not sure why and then the [clears throat] other one they're not. So, I'm I'm I'm a little confused there, but I will not be buying the one that they're charging for because there's lots and lots of free information out there and there's a lot of people working on tools for us right now. Um the other piece to that and uh is that our meeting room policy, I'm just working to tighten the language and clarify some things in that policy a little bit. We are very very our meeting rooms are very busy. They're high traffic and what I've never seen quite this year um just folks um wanting to split their time and come in two or three times in one day for an hour here and an hour there which we just don't do. We do a block a one block um it's just too difficult to try to manage and we only allow three reservations on the books at one time. So if they split that means they have maybe they're they're using all their time in one day or all their calendar their um times that they can have. Um I think it would be really difficult on the staff's part for management of our administration of that. Um [snorts] the other piece is that people are I we've noticed just once or twice where people are um having family book for them to get around the minimum or the maximum ch amount of times that they can book. Um while most of the time that's you know we we want to be as flexible as possible um and allow people use but also um try to help people understand that circumventing the policy makes things difficult for everyone because we do have it's there are days where that thing is just solid with people back to back all day long. >> Um and other days we're not quite as busy but we can't rely on that. So, so hoping just to tighten it up a little bit [snorts] um as you would will have seen one and I I did ask Grant to look at that too just to make sure that we're using pro appropriate language and that I'm being um reasonable as well. I I try to be really flexible and reasonable in policy writing. So, um, did anybody have any other feedback besides what and I don't we'll check I mean once I hear from Grant and he keeps every time I see him he just says he knows he owes me an email. I know he's really busy right now. So, I think that I know there's some duplication there. Um, and Angela pointed that out. So, I'll be looking through that once Grant gets back to me too. But we'll clean it up a little bit more. Uh, staffing update. We have two people, two wonderful part- timerrs leaving at the end of one after this week. Um Morgan Simpson and then Molly, our lovely other part-timer is leaving at the end of August. So, we'll be hiring um Morgan's replacement. We're actually hired internally. Um Haley Yordonoff, who was a library assistant one, is going to assume a library assistant 2 role. So, we'll be working 26 hours a week. Um and adding so adding more hours. Um, and [clears throat] she actually we have flexibility to go up to 29. Um, so Morgan had been at 21 hours or 20 hours a week. So it'll be nice to have a a little bit more um and a little more consistent uh filling in some of the hours that we were needing. Um, and then we were kind of thinking we would wait in this. we put I had said we'd put a hold on it and since I since the writing of this like two literally two days later and Jen was crunching numbers and crunching the schedule and came in and just said I really think we're going to have to uh the availability for some of our part- timerrs because they work another job or sometimes two jobs or they have school is some really limited in some some cases. So, um, having more of them who can, some of them can only work even six or seven hours a week, which is totally fine as long as we have several, um, who can do that. Um, so we'll be hiring at least one more and depending on the pool, applicant pool, possibly two more, uh, part- timerrs here in the next month or so. And then I have a furniture update. We are going to get some new furniture in our adult reading area. I'm just really excited about this. Um thought I would share and I did share it with some of our regulars who come and sit in that area. The furniture we have right now is really low kind of low to the ground and very um it's just big furniture. I don't know. It's it it they drag it around. It's kind of damaged some of our flooring in a couple areas. Um so we're going to get some casters for the the furniture that we're keeping. We can't buy all new. Um, but so we'll get casters on the pieces that we're keeping to try to keep them the damage down and then our maintenance team will try to repair the flooring on the south end of the library in a couple different spots where some damage is done. Um, and then in the magazine area, we're just going to get some lighter, smaller pieces that'll hopefully take up a little less room and not be so hard uh on the floor and a little higher up. It's about 2 in taller, so when people sit down, they won't be sinking down so much. I think that uh a lot of our adults will appreciate that. And they were lovely, the friends were lovely to agree to pay for that full cost for us. So, we're excited. And then, um we were able to sell four of the current chairs to another public library, which is really nice. And then uh we have five going to other or no se seven going to other city departments I believe it is. So we will be getting those taken care of over the next month and you will see really pretty bright new furniture coming in. Um parking lot update. I would like to see that the west phase that it says begin began today began today but it did not. Um we never know um and they never know. I don't know if it was due to weather or we never know what's happening. Uh the concrete on the community center drive is poured, but it looks like there might be some stuff fill fillins that they're going to have to do before they can open that. Um when I look down there today, I thought that was supposed to be open as of Friday. They did not open it on Friday, so it is still closed. Um once they get that open, then they're supposed to be starting on the our part of the library, the library lot, which means both ends will be shut off. There won't be any drive-thru. It'll be both end. It'll be accessible from Ferry Street and from Penn and and the highway, but it won't be um you can't drive through. Our doors will still be open. You just won't be able to get there from in a car. Um and then at some point they will close our doors. Uh our our entrance will be closed for a short time. They're going to regrade and res-slope that area to have a little better drainage. We have had um during the cold season when we get runoff and the water freezes back up, we get some pooling and ice um occasionally outside the doors. So, just for safety purposes, they'll fix that all up. And then just a legislative update. You'd think we would be done with all this, but on the national level, there is a similar bill. Um you will recognize the name of it because we've had it in Iowa. uh the stop sexualization of children uh act has come to the house uh 7661 and its companion in the senate. Uh that bill is out of committee as far as I know. I don't know that it's actually on the calendar but it as far as I understand it is out of committee. Um it targets school libraries right now. Um, so you know, and that means that schools could be uh subject to litigation and who knows what else at this point. Um, and it's both the use of funds for uh programming activities and materials uh for sexually oriented content. We don't know what that means exactly, but I did just add in every library statement if anyone wants to just further read about it and advocacy pieces that you can use if you're talking about it. Um, and then there is a petition if anyone's interested in signing and or sharing that information. The last time I checked the petition was at which was last week it was they had wanted hoped for 35,000 names and there was about 35,500 names. [snorts] So it's um spiked up and then just professional development wise um I wanted to share at ALA uh the library conference the the uh libraries in AI in public life meeting that we had at the Obama center was uh made even extra special just being in that space. We were the first to be able to use the Sojourer Truth >> room um which was really cool and um my plane was delayed. So I got to Chicago on time but then our pilot overshot the landing. >> Oh my goodness. >> Um so we that was very interesting. We we we were alive so that was good. Good. Had to do a loop around. So we ended up I ended up getting there just in time for the meetings and they did kindly do a little grounds tour afterwards. So, I didn't get I got to see some things. So, I didn't get to see everything that I would have loved to see. Um, but hopefully I'll get to go back in the fall and um beg for my friend Chris Brown from the Chicago Public Library to get me in to see a little bit more of it. A lot of it is open to the public all the time. Um, so you may have heard that the museum is sold out through like the fall, late fall, but the rest of the grounds are just gorgeous and it's so worth the trip. Um but the meeting itself was about 80 people coming together to talk about uh the impact of AI on the public and uh how the importance of libraries being at the table in the conversations develop as we develop the guard rails and and how that how that looks. We know and we know there are already guard rails in place in some ways. Um, right. But John Bracken, who uh heads the Digital Public Library of America, who kind of led this charge, this was the start of a big grant that they have a million-doll grant to do work around AI um in p in public libraries and libraries across the country. Um not just public, uh and the Chicago Public Library put this meeting together and he is really great about curating um speakers to bring uh interesting groups of people together to talk about these subjects. So they had groups of public librarians talking about the work that they're doing in the public library realm. Um and talking about uh actually you know we can't dismiss AI in public libraries. It's it's here. Uh, one of the examples that one of the libraries from Chicago gave that I thought was really interesting was a woman who was who had tried everything to get she was losing her property and she tried everything to find a way to fight that. She ended up going to AI and asking AI for help to write a an argument to help her save her house and she won. I mean, she won based on that. And how can you argue that? Like so what we can do is help be the guide. We can help with literacy and we can help make sure that our staff understands um how to guide people and and from what you just heard I think it's really important. Um you can see the kids are are well aware. Um the beginning we opened that meeting with uh the Chicago youth poet laurate wrote an incredible poem about um it was actually about sugar but it was about AI. It was really cool. Um and I'll try to remember if you guys want to I will send it to you because it was really cool. Hey, you're going a different direction there when you were talking about someone using AI to >> to file something for them because most of the stories we hear about that go in a bad direction. >> Well, and exactly, but we can't dismiss it at hand. But what we can do then again is to make sure that we're teaching people the the the ways that it can be beneficial and and safe ways to use it and effective ways. So, >> um, so I think more to come on that. I will tell you that at that at ALA there were over 35 sessions on AI. I attended um one and a half if you want to two if you count that big meeting but um I did not go to a bunch of them but I did go to one on ethics and AI which was also extremely interesting um and the e ethical AI and libraries and one of the speakers there was the New York public library and one of the things that they're doing is laying groundwork that um they've become really good at this New York public is working with Queens and Brooklyn to create um both public facing programming that they'll um provide access to for libraries across the country to use for programming and training materials for the staff that they'll provide to public libraries across the country. I think they have re they recognize that there are a lot of libraries that need the help and they're willing to give it and it's been it's really fantastic. So, I'm excited to see what they come up with. They've had some they also had a grant and did a series of community conversations around AI that's available online. That's interesting. Um and then just our archive presentation that I was involved in um with Chicago Public Library and my friend from the digital public library uh not John but another friend Tanya. Uh turned out really great. We had 80 people in attendance at that. I think they thought that there would be a lot more small public libraries there. There were, I think, three people that raised their hand in that room when I asked if anyone was from a small public library. But it was I think it was a really good balance of the group of us that were speaking on the subject. Um, and we I did have someone from a small library come up and ask for my information, contact information, and want to know if she could contact me both about this that that um archiving, but also just in general about programming. So, it's always nice to make those connections. Um and then one of the people at the AI meeting that I was at was from a data and society which is about is a group that does research but really human first is human first technology based research. Um, and I was all excited to tell Nick that they wanted to partner with libraries to do research. And um, I had an email in my inbox from Nick saying, "Hey, I got connected to someone from data and society and they want to talk to us about a partnership." I was like, "Oh, that's so cool." Because I had the same thing that I was going to share with you. So, we have had that meeting with them. Um, and another cool connection, the woman that we met with, um, has a family farm in North Liberty that is going to be a century farm. So, she'll be coming here to recognize their century farm soon. And then they are planning to come to North Liberty to do research with us here. And then I think at some point they're planning to bring a cohort together some at a collocation. Um, I don't think that'll be I think that'll be Nick and maybe one other staff person and not me. I think I will step out of that and let the staff go do that work which will be really cool. So, [snorts] and that is all that I have unless you guys have questions from the reports. I just had one one quick question on the staff reports under assistant director. It says begin preparing for three three staff departures. So, and Molly are the part-time ones. And then >> Karen is our student that comes back in the summer. This will be her third summer >> or her second summer coming back from college. Um she says that she's going to be a civil rights lawyer. And she says that even after she's a lawyer, she's still going to come back and work at the library. That's what she tells us. >> But she come she's uh come back the last few summers and worked summer lunch almost every single day. >> She's fantastic. Okay, that was my only question. I just didn't recognize that name. >> Yes, she's one. She is wonderful. >> That makes my bird's heart very happy. >> Any other questions? >> Next item on the agenda is the policy review. >> Yes. So the first thing is the personnel policy statement which is just an annual thing that we need to have approval of uh to keep up with the state accreditation. Um it doesn't have to be done annually. It actually has to be done every three years. But just to be safe, I always think it's just good to do do it this way so we aren't scrambling when the time comes. >> I move to adopt the personnel policy statement as set forth in the board materials. Second. >> All in favor say I. >> I. Allo. All [clears throat] oppose. Nay. Hearing no nays. The personal policy statement is approved. And then the other policy that is up for review is the program policy. I I made these changes way back in September. Um I believe September, October time, fall fall time. just to align things with some of the uh laws that were coming that had come up last year. I don't know if you guys have any questions. I have a motion to approve the program policy. I would move to approve the policy. >> I have a second. >> Second. All >> in favor say I. >> I. Post say nay. >> Hearing no nays. Program policy is approved. >> And then the last thing is just always I don't know that you have to really do anything with it. It's just the bylaws are always on the review cycle. So they are included. Um we can do just that you've reviewed them. I think. >> Okay. Next item on the agenda is new business. Is there any new business? >> I think um just my only question is if we can um send a note to the kids like perhaps through Nick as a thank you um to him and to Ally as well as the youth who are involved in that because I know that's a lot of work and it was also amazing. So, I think it'd be really nice to have our appreciation if possible. Do you have to make a movement or a movement? Do you have to make a motion or anything? Or is that something we can do? >> I don't know. I think you guys could probably just if you guys agree that you could probably just someone could just send one. I don't know that you'd have to approve make a motion. >> Are you comfortable writing it? >> Sure. >> Okay. >> Yeah, you bet. I was going to anyway for me. So, I'll just do priority. [laughter] >> I have a motion to adjurnn. >> Motion. >> Second. >> Sure. Second.