Title: North Liberty City  Council meeting on March 10, 2026
Published: 2026-03-11 12:51:07
Video ID: KzH9OvS8AQI

Good evening everyone. Welcome to North Liberty City Council meeting on Tuesday night, March 10th, 2026. Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> For here, Liebold >> here. >> Park >> here. >> Smith >> here. >> We >> here. Thank you. Item three is approval of the agenda. There are no changes. Could I have a motion for approval, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Second. >> Move by Wayen. Seconded by Forney. Yep. >> Are there any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed. >> Agenda is approved. Item four is our consent agenda. Anything on there worth questioning? >> Can I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Move by Park, seconded by Whis. Any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed. >> Consent agenda carries. Item five is public comment. Now it's a time for anyone in the audience wishing to address council on something that's not already on our agenda with public comment. Seeing nothing but professional visitors out in the audience, I will close our public comment unless Tracy there were any online. All right, item six, Josiah, is our engineers report, please. >> Thanks, Mayor. Uh, one quick update for you tonight. I just wanted to follow up uh I think from last meeting. Forever Green Road and Jasper Improvements. The roundabout uh the precon meeting will be occurring this Friday, which is good. So, we'll get that started. The late start date is April 6th, but we expect probably within the next 10 days, 14 days that work will start. So, uh we're getting close. So, that's good. Um, one of I wanted to uh there was a question on the roundabout and particularly about the SIPCO pole down at that intersection. There's a very large pole um and where that is in the roundabout. Um on your screen in front of you, you can see that that pole will be in the uh I guess that'd be the southwest corner of the roundabout there. that red circle. Um, so the roundabout in the road, you know, today as you drive towards Tiffen, you come to that T intersection, right? And you got to take that big left. And so what's what's going to happen is this will all be straight aligned, right? So, um, the pole will be off to the left outside of the intersection, outside of the sidewalk and everything. But, uh, there are some questions about how that how that works and it's kind of wonky with the geometry, but that's that's where it lays out. So, Um, mayor, that's all I have for project updates tonight. >> Thank you, sir. Are there any questions? >> Nope. Just appreciate that. Uh, I've actually people are asking, >> "Where's that poll in the middle of the road?" And I said, "No, we took care of that a long time ago." >> Yeah. >> So, >> technical term wonky. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Just make sure. Thank you. >> 101. >> Ryan, we'll move on to item seven, which is a city administrator. >> Okay. Thank you. A few things for me tonight. Uh, first want to make you all aware that we did submit last week to uh Miller Meek's office a $3 million request jointly with the city of Coralville for uh the next uh phase of the Forever Green Road East project. So, as you all know and as Josiah has previously reported on, uh phase one of that project, which also received federal funding from uh through Miller Meeks's office, uh will will kick off later this year. Uh and uh we're hopeful that uh phase two will also have a sign significant amount of federal funding tied to it. uh we should know probably within the next uh month or so on that request, maybe two months, but the the timeline for that was very tight. We found out uh that the um that the application period it opened on a Friday uh and closed on the following Friday. So closed, we had one week to to get that in. Fortunately, because of the previous work on this, uh we were able to to get that done. And a special thanks to uh Tracy for uh carrying uh the the water on our end. And then of course Coralville uh also had some work to do. So we got that in and and we're hopeful. Uh I would also mention uh with this nice weather, we've we've had some folks asking about leaf pickup. Uh of course we all get a little excited when we get to 70 plus degrees in early March. Uh Michael and his team do uh plan to start leaf pickup this year. for March 30th. Uh so towards the end of the month, uh that generally runs for four weeks. Uh and again, that'll be a little bit weather dependent if we have to extend that out a bit if we would get a late late snow or something like that. Uh and of course, we'll have this on our uh on our website and social media channels, but uh just a heads up for folks who may be inquiring or if you're talking to anyone, we're we're looking at starting that uh later this month. And then the last thing I wanted to note uh just on our next uh council well at our next council meeting uh we will have a separate meeting uh just for the uh budget public hearing that's March 24th. So we will start uh our meeting at 6 p.m. Uh as you might recall for those of you who were here last year uh we will have uh on that agenda just strictly the budget uh public hearing. Then we'll have to adjourn that meeting and start our next our regularly scheduled council meeting for that evening. So look for that in your in your packet uh for the next go round. Other than that, mayor uh that's all I have unless there are any questions. >> Could you uh remind or just in um about this application that we that Tracy needed to turn around in a week here? Um how many letters of of recommendation did we receive and who were they from in the community just as a sample? Sure. I I believe it was there between 15 and and 18. I'm sorry I don't have the exact number off the top of my head, but uh we were very appreciative to get letters from the university hospital, uh the university research park, Steiner, uh Green State, a lot of folks who obviously depend on uh that forever green road access. Uh and then greater IC as another example. Uh there are others that I'm uh forgetting. if you were prompting me to name somebody in particularly. >> No, I did not. I just there was a lot more to it than uh an application and a lot of people >> put time in for doing that. So, >> that's all I had. Does anyone have any questions for Ryan? >> Ryan, just one question from me. Uh you mentioned that the leaf cleanup day is there. Do we have dates on the spring cleanup uh for I just know that folks are going to start asking about that as well. >> Yeah, that's always the last Saturday, right? Last sat last Saturday in April. >> Last Saturday in April. >> Yeah, it is the 25th. 25th. Thank you. >> Anything else? I'll move on to the mayor's report. Uh just a couple of uh calendar things. Um this week, Saturday, finally, the Optimus Club's pancake breakfast is here. I didn't want to miss it cuz I prematurely announced it last month. Um and I was really happy to see the accounts payable um in the packet. So, as much as we might have some growing pains on this Civic Plus, but I think it's a great technology. I think it's really a helpful tool for the community to see the bills that we're paying. Um, always have, but it's nice to have that transparency uh in there like that. Um, and then I guess personally, professionally, I had an opportunity last Friday over the noon hour to speak to the Johnson County Affordable Housing Coalition. Uh, they have a monthly meeting on the last Friday of the month and this uh this month's topic was solar energy. Um, so I talked to them, but they had a lot of other great um topics. So, if you have that maybe already on your calendar or put it there, it's noon on the last Friday of the month. Um, they have speakers. Um, some not as good like they had this past week and others that are much better uh than me. So, um, if you can make it, um, they're they're great events to attend. Um, and I wanted to highlight just a few things that were in our packet. Um, I know that you all read it. uh anybody out there in the audience and you're all it you're all the ones in the packet that I'll talk about but for the community um there's a lot of great information about what our staff is doing uh towards the end of the packet. It happens uh once a month in there. And uh there were a few highlights that I wanted to pull out and and number one uh our community relations department and everything that they have been doing to promote and to fill uh and to book that HYV center uh over the past couple of months and what they're forecasting for this summer. Uh it's been a real um it's been a real surprise. It's been very well uh received in our community and and thanks in no uh no small part to their efforts out there. And we're also, I think, still accepting an application for a part-time event person out there to help out. So, um, if you're interested, uh, there was a lot of information in there from our library, uh, department and, um, if you've been to our library, you know the resources that are there, but if you haven't been there, uh, it's not just a place that's it's dry and boring for for getting books. There's so much information, uh, in our packet about what they are doing that represents uh, weeks and months worth of work. uh and really just connecting our community. Um whether it's kids events, whether it's community events, they have uh authors that I'm pretty sure my daughters are going to be familiar with that are coming in uh next month that sold out in minutes um to being there. So, a really um a popular place to be in our community. They also highlighted some of the concerns that we see happening at the state level that will impact our city's libraries and how they might relate to our relationships with our school districts uh that are around us here as well. So, if you haven't read that, take a moment to to do so. And um a neat thing in there is that uh they have become the um the collection point for historical information for the city of North Liberty. There's a lot of great information out there and uh they are they're the collecting agent uh for that. Um, and finally, I I wanted to uh highlight a number of things that were in that part of the packet related to our police department. Um, number one, um, we get requests by Eagle Scout candidates a lot over the years. Um, and they're usually directed to Guy, uh, and then they get filtered through other departments. And one of the projects that was highlighted was an Eagle Scout project in the police in the police report. uh because the Eagle Scout um Cameron Duncan um wanted to make address signs for businesses so that first responders might uh know right where they are. So if someone's having a medical emergency at a business, there's a red sign right inside the doorway that says the address of that business and where it's located. So it's in an effort to uh promote quicker response uh and easier response for our first responders. So, um, thank you Cameron for for coming up with that and all of our city staff for for putting that together and helping him out with that. Um, I also wanted to congratulate Chief Enigga um and everyone there at that department. Uh, this last couple of years uh have been uh a real opportunity for for her and them to shape the uh the future of that department. Um you saw in the packet there continues to be a lot of training provided, hiring that's going on, uh training that they have to go through and how much that costs as well. Um so I'm really grateful uh for all of them uh in that work that they're doing there. And finally, I think the highlight of that uh packet and specifically to our PD uh was welcoming three new sergeants uh onto into our department. So, uh, for those of you that aren't familiar, our department is run, uh, with a police chief, um, two lieutenants and four sergeants, and we've been without three of three sergeants, um, sporadically here for the past 6 months. So, those have all been filled. So, um, Kraton Reagan is Reaganweather, excuse me, uh, is an existing sergeant. He will still be there. Uh but he was joined by Sergeant Brian Davis um who came back to the department uh has been with us collectively for 11 years and brings a lot of leadership and um just knowledge of the city and I'm incredibly grateful um that that he uh is now a sergeant on our staff. Uh Sergeant Bruce Ston uh has been with the city for 10 years and um I you kind of would think Bruce is already a sergeant. uh he has that kind of uh leadership uh about him. So, I'm incredibly grateful uh that he's now being officially recognized. And finally, Sergeant Brent Gibbs um just came to the department last year, but brings a ton of experience in law enforcement to uh North Liberty, and we're grateful to have him here. And uh just the fact that he uh is is now in this leadership role as a sergeant on the PD speaks to his character speaks to uh what others on that staff and in that department um think of him as well. So I wanted to congratulate those um newly hired sergeants. With that, I will uh end and move on to council reports. Now is an opportunity for our council members to let our community know what they've been doing on behalf of the city when not sitting up here at a council meeting. No particular order. >> I can go first, I guess. Um, so I attended a League of Women Voters legislative forum, um, which was the first time I've been to to one of those. It was very well attended, I think. Um, great input from community members, um, with with the focus on, uh, clean water in Iowa and, um, ways to remediate and and help Ians. Uh with that, um I also attended a night of a thousand dinners and it was um International Women's Day was what it was recognizing. Um it was held by the Johnson County United Nations um association um with their focus on affordable housing, excuse me. um and uh they um recognized several organizations and I don't have them at the top of my uh head with who they recognized but um really helping to shed a light on the needs and and where we want to go with uh these organizations and participating and stuff. So, >> thanks for >> and then I also I forgot um I did go attend the Quickstar ribbon cutting over on North Liberty North Liberty Road. It's the second quick start in North Liberty, so that was a good time, too. >> Awesome. Thanks for going to that dinner. Uh we don't oftentimes get someone that can make that, so I appreciate you you doing that. >> Anyone else? >> Yeah, I can jump in here. Um busy couple weeks for me. Mayor uh attended with with Tanya the Quickstar ribbon cutting. So, congratulations to those folks uh for uh for their second location in North Liberty. Um number of uh opportunities to get together for coffee. I did meet with one potential business u exploring the opportunity maybe moving their location to North Liberty. So I can't leak a whole lot right now, but it was a it was a very healthy conversation on the growth continued growth of North Liberty. Uh attended the Greater Iowa City Build Johnson County session with and or Russ. Really nice job. Thank you for your efforts and and your uh your comments there. Um wanted to say thank you to uh Greater Iowa City for hosting that event and then also for uh their efforts with our continued uh coffee connections and lunch connections. Uh last Friday I attended the Collins community uh event for coffee connections and it was very well attended probably 25 30 different uh individuals from either North Liberty, new residents, businesses, potential businesses. So, um, continue to enjoy those sessions. And then the last cup of coffee that I had was with, uh, Lakesha Jackson from Dream City and look forward to continuing to build that relationship. Um, she's she's asked me to volunteer for some some of their upcoming events that they have and and I, uh, have already committed to doing one of them. Uh but it just serves as a reminder that with um all of these events that go on, whether they be city slate events, whether they be night of a thousand dinners, dream city, different opportunities um that we as individuals can either contribute our time, talent, or treasure. Uh and so just wanted to make that plug. Whether you want to get involved at the city level for some of the city slate events that we have coming up, I know they're always looking for volunteers. We've got a number of things going on this summer, spring and summer. uh if you don't have the the the talent or the treasure, time is always a very wellreceived opportunity to to give back to the community. So, just want to make a plug for those folks that are looking for volunteers and uh yeah, a couple busy weeks for me, Mayor. Thanks, Brian. I'll jump in and uh I also attended that Bill Johnson County event put on by a greater IC at the ACT campus and uh I thought I appreciated Russ took the opportunity you know generally for those you know we're we're sharing with everyone else about what uh North Liberty's been up to the projects you know we have coming up and Russ took his time to promote development opportunities that that are in North Liberty. So, I thought he did a great job and I appreciated appreciated that. And I'm also proud, you know, this council and his staff are are constantly out in the community trying to promote North Liberty and and uh I'm proud of everyone for that. Uh I I got to give a shout out. I was have fun exploring the packet like you were saying and the library. I had a I just got to give a shout out to the North Bin Historical Society. So, I made my way to the library's website and was poking around on some of the stuff that they've archived that has to do with the history of North Liberty, and it's and it's pretty great. I recommend you you taking some time and and doing that. And I was also happy to learn that uh the city before it was North Liberty was was referred to as Squash Bend, and I had no idea that that that was the case. So, learn something every day. >> Trivia with Punk. >> Yeah. I attended an event with Marinette uh representative Marinette Miller Meeks U and she was just talking about the work that's being done federally and and I'm always just trying to you know keep North Liberty on on her radar and the ribbon cutting at at Quickstar. Uh I'd like to thank them for every time they open a Quickstar they donate uh $2,000. So we got $1,000 to the Centennial Center and another thousand towards the the Firefighters Foundation. So generous folks and we appreciate them and that's what I have. >> Thanks Paul. >> Thank you. >> Uh Mayor, uh big thanks to the Iowa City Area Sports Commission uh for all of their work the last few few weeks getting uh some wrestling uh here in town at the Pstra. Uh poked my head in there for a few minutes. I know Paul did as well. Um just to see how that event was going. That was a big draw. uh and that would not have happened without the work of uh Josh Shamberger and his team uh at uh at the sports commission. So, we appreciate that. Also attended the NCAA women's uh wrestling meet there in Corville at Extreme Arena. Again, put on by that team uh and was able to uh talk to a few uh folks um out of town uh that were more than excited uh to be in Corville and in this area in general. uh two of those individuals had made it over to Pstra to see some of the younger kids uh wrestle prior to the NCAA event. That was the inaugural NCAA Women's Wrestling Championship. So, for that to be that close and have that uh partnership and just reminding folks that uh not only do we have current venues in North Liberty, but some yet to come um that will uh we would happily fill with these types of events in the future. So, laying that groundwork this weekend was a lot of fun. uh don't have uh too much else to add other than been the quick start already twice today and uh just upcoming uh events. Please go to the city website and look at that. There's a lot of stuff coming up um and an event this actually Thursday at the Centennial Center from Orchestra Iowa. So uh I went to the one last month and it was you know it was amazing the sound in that building. Thank you all for your time. Item 10 is a Cherry Street Firehouse project update and parks and water utility maintenance shop expansions. And item A is that update regarding proposed firehouse project, water facility expansion and parks facility expansion project. >> Who's going to lead us here? >> Well, I will uh introduce our shive team. Uh we have you all know Natalie Openendall uh who's been very uh uh active on other projects in North Liberty including the building we're in and Centennial Center. And then Andrew Avara uh is from their Southbend office uh and he is their fire department uh specialist. Uh so they have a a brief presentation this evening to talk a little bit about kind of where we're at right now and what we need uh to do to move forward uh for uh the uh for the fire station project, but it also includes some expansions uh to uh within other departments to to accommodate uh the fire station project. So I'll turn it over to Natalie and Andrew. Thanks, Ryan. Um, so as Ryan said, so I'm Natalie Epidol, um, architect at Shyter. Um, seen all of your faces a few times here. Uh, so Andrew with me, uh, he's the project manager as well as the content expert, uh, for fire stations for this project. Um, so we just want to talk a little bit about what we've been doing since the last time we updated you. um in the last time we talked uh where things are going um and then kind of the schedule for how we're planning on to continue through the design and the construction of these projects. Um as far as progress goes on the fire station. So, last time we talked, uh, this was one of the plans that we had discussed, um, where we were looking at a at a two-phased approach, um, and the building would continue to be occupied by the fire department, um, while construction was going on. Um, there were obviously some concerns with that. Um we when we started design um started really getting into the design of the fire station, one of the first things that was brought up was is there any benefit to being able to temporarily relocate the fire department so that we could do the construction for this project all at one time. Um so we looked into that. Um we actually found a number of benefits to you know relocating them and taking over the site all at one time. Uh we could save 6 months in the construction time of the project. Um which we found pretty substantial. Uh we could also um by mirroring the floor plan, we were actually able to uh get seven drive-thru bays >> into this fire station, whereas we were only able to get two previously. Um so that was a significant benefit. Uh this also allows the existing parking to kind of remain relatively located where it is now. And you know, so we're logistics of the public coming to the station uh doesn't change a whole lot. Um but the benefits to the fire department in general is substantial. Um so again, as far as the floor plan goes, we were able to mirror that. Um we do get the additional mezzanine space um over the support um off of the apparatus bay. So, the additional training space and everything that we were talking about previously, we're still getting all of those components in. Um, we're just able to to have those additional drive-through bays and some additional um community engagement kind of at that um north corner of Cherry and Front. So, um again, second floor, the floor plans realistically haven't changed a whole lot other than beering. Um, just wanted to show we were still getting that mezzanine mezzanine space in there for you. So, right now, um, Andrew is going to kind of go through where we're at, um, and where we're going as far as process. So, right now, we're in the process of wrapping up our schematic design level documentation. So, we're still kind of at that 15,000 foot level view. And then we'll really be at the end of this phase really well defined of where our project is heading in the future. So what's coming next is our design development phase and this will be really the crux of everything that we look at developing that design even further, defining materials that go into the station, defining the actual lighting that goes into the station, defining the mechanical systems even further. So this is that level of that documentation moving forward after this after this phase. Then after that comes developing in details the construction documents so that we can be prepared to go out for bidding. Uh I'll talk base a little bit about the CM process here in a little bit when we talk about schedule. But realistically this is the time where we're taking our documents and putting them out to forbid. Then we'll follow that with construction administration actually moving the dirt on site, right? Getting that process going. So, our shy battery team will be out there uh more than likely on a weekly basis and just uh observing the construction, making sure everything's keeping with compliance and the safety standards on site. Touch a little bit about the public works project. >> Yes. So the um additions that we are looking at doing over at the public's work public works kind of campus site over there um are crucial in the fire station construction. Um when we look at this site if we are not able to temporarily relocate the fire station over here we would lose that ability for the additional bays. we would lose the um reduction of construction um time. Uh so it's really important to us that we do get these projects um kind of set up uh figure out what makes the most sense um to get in both of these spaces uh and to get the additions constructed in a timely fashion. Uh so the we've got one addition to the parks building. Um this is additional um space that we're looking at. We're still working through the specifics of what's going to be inside the space. Um there would also be an addition over at the water maintenance shop. Um so we would have an addition over there. And then we are also looking at um additional space for um relocating um some storage and things like that that are in a building that will be demolished. Um along with the building additions on this site, we would be looking at some additional paving uh so that we could provide uh some of that access that the fire trucks are going to need in order to be able to pull through the site um and things like that temporarily. Um, again, just want to make sure it's understood that, you know, we find that these projects are are super important in order to expedite that construction timeline for the fire station and to get the additional amenities amenities that um mirroring that floor plan allows um in the apparatus bay. So, with that, we do want to look a little at the overall schedule. Um, and Andrew is going to kind of touch and go through that for us. >> Natalie spoke about the importance of these two projects moving in advance so that we can temporarily relocate the fire station services. Um, here's a highlighted, a very highlevel schedule that incorporates all the project phases. Um the Cherry Street Firehouse is in the top and this stretches along 2005 of um where we started from all the way to 2028 in this schedule. Um we are currently in the schematic design process finish that up and currently for the CM solicitation we are getting close to wrapping up that documentation so that we can uh put out our notice of uh intent for that RFQ and then following that continuing on with the design of the Cherry Street Firehouse. Uh but really with that hinge pin of the other site making sure that we start that as soon as possible here. I know I put a date in here for next week. Um because if you see the timeline, then there's also where we would have that temporary move from the fire department out to that facility once that's been constructed so that we have that uh water maintenance shop area for housing a few of the apparatus vehicles that need to be able to be there for response. Uh once that's done, then we can start on site at the Cherry Street location with the construction for the new firehouse and then at the end relocating them back. Um so this gives you a highle aspect of what that schedule looks like overall and where these pieces in part blend together so that we can accomplish the overall goal. >> Any questions? >> Any questions? So after tonight, we're going to or hopefully we're going to be able to get started uh with the the water maintenance shop and the public um shop so that those can get those can get started so that this can happen. I'm sorry, the park shop so that this can happen so that the fire station can happen. >> Right. Correct. >> Okay. And is there a a time frame that we need to develop documents and get those out for bid? And and we suspect or we're planning that'll be completed by the the middle of next year. Those those facilities constructed and ready to go. >> Correct. So um the right now the parks building um the construction types and things like that would we'd be looking at kind of expedited construction schedules um for those. Um, as far as design goes, uh, we would be looking to probably go out to bid, um, yet in the fall of this year. Okay. Um, in order to kind of get that fall bid window, um, for these projects, which would then give until the spring or so of 2027 when we would expect those to be completed and then kind of make the transition from um, one building to the next for the fire department. >> Okay. So, and and did I hear you correctly that the um the water expansion facility, is that the only place where the fire department will um be housing the equipment or will they also be doing it in the parks expansion? >> So, right now we're we're trying to kind of isolate where everyone is and I'm sure Brian can speak a little more to this. Um but for speed of response, we really want everyone kind of as close together as possible. Um so we are looking at trying to keep those isolated the um trucks and the equipment um any other apparatus isolated to that uh water maintenance addition. >> Okay. >> Um >> we may have to do some temporary things in order to make that happen um and not have to I guess overbuild that addition on the water um maintenance facility. So, we are looking at some temporary options as well. Uh there's also questions about storage and and things like that with their the temporary relocation. >> Okay. And and I um and this goes to the parks department uh expansion. That's really a facility needed for some of this storage or for some of this um additional space for that purpose, I believe, >> as well. Well, and on top of that, I I mean, the fire department's kind of booting Greg out of his building. Um, so we're we're having to relocate some of the water maintenance. Okay. >> Um, storage and and equipment and and things like that that can be moved >> over to the parks edition temporarily, you know. So, there there is kind of this like shift Yes. of components that does have to happen in order to try and keep the department the fire department as close to each other as possible. >> Okay. >> So, just as a a reminder, there's there's an existing shop down there now. I think it's three stalls, right, Greg? Three. Yeah. That um water department is using for storage that would all be emptied in addition to the new space that we're adding on. The what we would do then with the water equipment is relocate it to the new parks expansion. So Guy is waiting until the the entire until this whole master schedule is completed for him to uh move into to his expanded space. >> And did was there already a plan to expand at a later date, but to expand the the water shop? Yes, we actually the the both of these projects were in the FY27 CIP for the last couple years and uh what we are proposing is to nudge those up, start them now. So, it this isn't necessarily a new concept. Uh it's it's just one we're uh moving with quicker uh and adding a little bit more complexity to it when we add the relocation of the fire department into it. >> And I assume that building is going to be built to house the fire trucks and probably wasn't the plan, you know, for what was going to be at the water shop in that initial plan. What's the, you know, like how does that translate for the water department after the fire station or, you know, the fire trucks go back to the new station? Does that translate well or >> I was going to say we can all kind of take this. Um, so the uh essentially you're looking at what is it five truck bays or so? Five drive-thru bays is what would be constructed with the water maintenance facility. So that allows the fire department to be able to park, you know, at least five vehicles within that space. Um, so the the day-to-day like housing of on um on duty staff and things like that may not necessarily happen within the parks building itself. Um, it may be temporarily located in a temporary facility right next to the building. Um, so we're trying to minimize um as many of the overdesign components that would have to happen to that part to that water maintenance facility. Um, so that we're not okay. This is now designed to the level of a fire department. Okay. Well, we just spend all that money to design it to that level, but the parks or the water maintenance doesn't necessarily need it. So, we're trying to eliminate a lot of that crossover by trying to keep things um more broken down, if that makes sense. >> If I can add to that, the same setup of these drive-thru um garage bays are very similar to a fire station. We'll have the same size overhead doors that you would require for that because you will have vehicles that may go in there that require that same size. The concrete will be designed the same way as the fire station as well as some of the the trench draining with inside those bays as well. Um the HVAC would be up to a minimum standard as well, but um we know that that's only temporary means for the fire department apparatus vehicles. So we like Natalie said, we don't want to overdesign it knowing that it may not be used for that purpose after the fire department has departed from that that site. If that makes sense. >> Absolutely. I don't want to drag this out too long. I appreciate you guys being here. One of the things that comes up is the exhaust um system that's in the fire department right now. Well, one of those need to be uh installed in this water um expansion or because no one will be living there, sleeping there, it's not required. I'm getting that thumbs up back there. Okay. >> You want to >> Yeah, mayor. I think you hit it on the head. Um the nice thing about this building is it's completely drive-thru, right? And because we are not going to be living in the space or eating in the space or doing any of those kinds of things, I we're very comfortable with it being very temporary. >> Okay. >> Um and just to kind of put a bow on uh as far as what we can house there, Greg and I did a little bit of measuring and all five of these bays will be 65 ft deep. So we'll be able to park all of our trucks in this space because we can double stack a few of those smaller trucks. Okay. So I do So, mayor, I've got a few things. So, the majority of stuff inside, I'm guessing the way that you're building that building, code's not going to allow you to house people in there. >> That would be my guess. And so, are we doing temporary trailers? What are we what are we doing for housing? >> Yes. >> Res. So essentially um I mean if you're familiar with like temporary classrooms or something like that, they do have temporarily temporary um like dorm buildings or living space buildings. Um and so we are currently looking at um our location options for those. Um so we think we'll likely need one. Um and then there's the component of um like training material storage and and things like that. So, um, Chief Platz is is currently they're going through what they have right now and figuring out what can be put in cold storage, what do we need access to on a daily basis, what do we need to be able to access, you know, monthly and and things like that. So, they're they're working through the logistics of that. So, there will be likely a storage um conx box or or something from a storage standpoint and a temporary dorm facility that would be located as close as we can really get them to um what we're calling temporary apparatus bay. >> I appreciate the thought that's going into this. The the way I see this is um we're we're paying ourselves rent instead of going out and paying someone else to house uh which would be extremely expensive and the fire department would be spread all over the place. Uh it we're paying ourselves forward for the move up of their uh construction pieces. So I've always been uh in favor of this as that discussion started. Um um I guess a few things while we have you um I I would love to sit here all night and pick your brain. Uh yeah, >> talk about it all. >> Are there are there cancer risk reduction things uh elements built into the station? So moving from the apparatus a bay into living quarters, I'm assuming that's your specialty. >> Yes, absolutely. So we look at compartmentalization throughout the firehouse and what we call safe zone design. Um so on the living quarter side, it's in completely separate uh air system >> versus the apparatus bay. Right? That's number one. Number two is there's airlock spaces almost like an interior vestibule between those areas for the transition space that have doors on them on both sides. It has positive pressure pushing the air away so that you're not getting that contaminants into the into the the living quarters. And then on the apparatus bay side looking at the exhaust systems there as well. Uh number one thing in the exhaust uh in the apparatus bay is our dedicated uh turnout gear storage room because we know that those have POS and forever chemicals and they're completely exhausting um contaminants all the time. So we want to make sure that those are being exhausted and stored in proper location versus having them out in the apparatus bay or hanging in um you know additional storage closet somewhere. Um, so yes, that is being absolutely addressed with the new design. >> Excellent. Appreciate that. And then lastly, Mayor, I know for security reasons, uh, your current gate system, I would take a look at that because, uh, I can tell you right now, your firemen are going to be very anxious sitting there watching that slow gate open while they're trying to get to cardiac arrest. So, we may have to look at, um, maybe temporarily changing those. >> Appreciate it. >> Thank you. >> Uh, just one thing from my my scene. I think it's it's important to realize, okay, what does this mean to the public, right? Because we've had a lot of detailed information here. Um, and just looking across the back row, there are four leaders uh that represent each of these departments. Um, my assumption, my knowledge, my confidence is that all of these guys have weighed in on the plans. Um, and so punchline for the public, uh, costs are lower, uh, leadership approved and no interruption to services as well, right? So, um, just I think it's important that we bring that up and be like, "Hey, you know what? Here's what's going on detail-wise. Thank you all for the very all of the information, but then also we have our leadership team and what a great example of the collaboration and what it takes to make uh the right investments at the right time to move this community forward. So, thank you all. >> And actually a better uh product in the end." >> Agreed. >> Yeah. Seven pullth through bays is amazing. >> Yeah, that's extraordinary stuff. So, >> does that was going to be my last question was now that we're doing seven drive-through bays, does that affect the costs that we were originally proposed? >> It does in the sense a little bit, but we're also gaining the cost savings of not having to phase the project, >> right? >> So, there is an offset, but at the same point, we're still in a better position when we're going after this, and it's a better product at the end. So, there's added value to that in the overall station design. Thank you. >> I had a question um kind of piggybacking on both of those. So the um the water plant and the parks department, those were already in the works for future by doing it this way and and pulling that forward and then changing the the design of the fire station. Um it for the knowledge of the residents I guess the cost savings or does it come out as a wash overall the whole project or are we looking what are we looking at there or is it too soon to tell? >> So we're we're still um kind of refining the cost um for like the parks and the um water maintenance building. Um, we're still kind of in the early stages of planning those, so we're not entirely sure the full square footage that we're looking at and the full site disturbance and things. So, it's a little difficult at this point um to kind of be able to to weigh that apples to apples, if that makes sense. >> I But I would say that our fire department budget is at 18 million. That's the number we're at. That hasn't changed. Mhm. >> Uh and the numbers that were in the CIP for both the parks and water shop uh were probably uh um estimated a little bit low. Uh but we we knew I mean that's typically until we get into uh the design piece of it, it's hard to uh to put a number on that. So, um overall that that fire department budget though remains the same and uh we anticipate that uh the the um water and parks project shop projects uh will be within uh a close proximity to what we what we have planned. So, but to Natalie's point, those two are we're still working on those two projects. It's are you hearing me? All right. It's a little difficult with all this. Thank you for this. We have my >> coming down. So, >> all right. >> Thanks. >> Thank you both. Appreciate it. I'll move on to item B then, which is resolution number 2026-22. This is a resolution approving the standard form of agreement between the city of North Liberty and Shive Hadri Inc. for the parks shop and water maintenance shop additions improvements projects. Could I have a motion for consideration please? >> So moved. >> Second. Moved by Forney, seconded by Won. Are there any additional questions? >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> Leon >> I. >> For I. >> Park. I >> Smith >> I >> Lyel >> I >> thank you. Motion carries 5. Item 11 is the wastewater project design and this is resolution number 2026-23 a resolution approving the task order number 26-01 between the city of North Liberty and Strand Associates Inc. for the phase 3 wastewater treatment modifications project. Could I have a motion for consideration please? So moved. >> Second >> by Smith, seconded by Forney. >> When do we work in questions or intros or do we need to do anything? >> Uh I can give a brief summary if that's okay. That sounds great. >> Uh I will note that Jenny Ruddy is here this evening with Strand and Associates. uh she's uh been uh heavily involved in our water and wastewater projects over the years and is currently uh on the team working on the water project uh that we have uh under design. Uh so if there are any technical questions certainly she is more than capable uh more much more capable than I to answer those and uh we also have Drew Lamers uh in the audience tonight our wastewater superintendent. But what we're asking uh for this evening is the council to approve uh a design contract with Strand uh to start design on our wastewater upgrades. And you might remember in 2025, just a year ago, almost exactly a year ago, we approved facility plans for both water and wastewater. And these facility plans are important because they help us uh identify the needs as our community continues to grow for water and sewer. And so uh this particular project will be a substantial upgrade uh to our existing facility. Our our current facility uh has a CA capacity to uh to serve roughly 28,000 residents. Uh uh the idea here is to have this new facility online by 2030 uh which will then uh serve uh over 41,000 or right at 41,000 residents. So uh the the start of the of the project would be uh for us to approve this agreement and move forward with some preliminary design uh with Strand and Associates. I mentioned to a couple of you already there's no pretty map with this uh project because uh frankly there's nothing pretty about this project. It's it's a lot of uh uh technical and um expansion work within the plant already. Uh Jenny and Drew would love to talk your ear off about it uh if you have questions on it, but the the highlights of what the project includes is included in that scope of services within your packet. Well, you ruined it for me. I was going to ask Jenny because she drove all this way to give us at least a highlight because those are very technical things in there and and for the audience it is in the packet. Um, but can you give us a couple of examples, Jenny, on on how intense this work is in the beginning and why there's a lot of an investment uh needed at this point. >> Yeah. So, just to give you a little background too, this is kind of an this is an expansion on your existing facility which Ryan mentioned. um the exist the current process which we called phase one was installed about uh 15 20 years ago at this point. So these improvements are being phased as your population grows so that your current population doesn't have to uh essentially put up the the capital support the construction of something that's going to support you for 20 years. So this is following right in line of what we were expecting like we talked about about a year ago. um of supporting growth every 10 years and incrementally expanding that wastewater to plan to do that. Um so you guys actually have a very state-of-the-art facility. You have a facility that no one else in Iowa has as far as the type of treatment you're doing. Um and yes, if you ever want to come down to the wastewater plant, I'm sure Drew would love to give you a tour of that and I'd be happy to talk to you about it, too. but it's very advanced. And what that's doing though is ensuring that the the treated water going to your uh receiving stream is meeting all your effluent qualities um without a doubt. So um this again is going to be expanding that existing process and then also looking at how we can um better handle and treat the the byproducts that come from that pro process that currently are land applied. >> Thank you. >> Yeah, you're welcome. Any questions for the expert while she's here? >> Just a quick one for me. If let's say North Liberty keeps expanding west, um what we're doing here in this location, we're good to go as far as you know, all that stuff to the west is going to connect up here or is it does it make sense to do something different as we go west? >> Yeah. So, there there's like you said, there's there's kind of two reasons why we expand a plant or or change a plant. One is growth and then the other is changing regulations. And so um based on what we know today, I'm not anticipating there's anything major. I don't have a crystal ball, but anything major that would change how we have to change how we have to treat the waste water as you continue to grow. Um there is room at the existing treatment site to at least support the next 20 I think 30 years off the top of my head here of of continued growth. So through 2050 um and possibly also60. Now that being said, techn just like computers and anything else, technology changes over time and so we tend to get more advanced and smaller footprint things like that. So, um I'm not making any guarantees, but it is possible that that there's um uh opportunities to to support past that that time frame, but time will tell as as our technology changes for treatment. I would add on that note, I think there are a couple variables there as well because while the plant could treat what Jenny's talking about, getting it there is a whole another challenge. And so when you look west of I80 as or excuse me, I 380 as an example, uh there are a number of lift stations and significant investment in um uh collection system that would have to be made. And so at that point, when that time comes, we may evaluate whether or not another plant is more reasonable uh than bringing it all over to this one, I think. But when that time comes, we'll we'll have to consider that. >> But our population could get to 40,000 staying east of 380. >> Yes, I believe it could. >> Okay. >> Thank you. So, mayor, the the talk of this facility, you know, a long time ago was how expensive it was. Um, I was here um just starting my residency here about that time. And um if we go back to what uh councelor Fortney was talking about with the League of Women Voters and their their topic on water quality, we're we're it there's there's nobody discharging water cleaner than we are outside of our wastewater treatment facility. But that came at a cost. Mhm. >> And so as we as we look at this expansion, I guess my my my question and maybe it can't be answered tonight, but as we're expanding and the upgrades in the technology, are we looking at a need to change how we're treating so that it remains affordable or are we able to stay at a high the highest quality in the state on discharge with affordable rates? because I I don't want to see us necessarily do the same that we did 15 and 20 years ago where because you you said it in your first in your first few sentences. We're doing this incrementally so that those of us who are living here are not paying for those 50 years from now. >> So I guess that that's my question with the technology. >> Yeah. So at each 10 years or so when we're re-evaluating where we're at and what the original plan is going forward of if we should stay on that track or not, that's what that facility plan is for that we did uh we completed last year. Okay. So every time that we you get to the next phase of whether or not it makes sense to continue down that path, there's a facility plan that needs to happen so that we make sure that that is we're still on track, but also is this the best course of action going forward. So that being said, the kind of the heart of the plant, which is the me membrane bioreactor, if you've heard that term before, um that that decision that was made, you know, 15 20 years ago, now going forward, it's it's less expensive to continue to expand that part of the process than to completely abandon what you already have and do something different. That being said, there's several other support facilities that we are evaluating and looking at what makes the best sense. Um, knowing what we need to treat, but also what are the options for for doing that because there's many ways of doing it. >> And so all those other support processes we're working through as part of the design, as part of planning um to do what makes the most sense, but also with respect to to the budget as well. I would add that part of the facility plan was a long range uh financial model and it was showing rate increases um as we come up to to these projects because this particular project is we're talking close to $50 million. So um is it affordable? It's it's the it's the best option. It's the most affordable, but it's going to be expensive. And and this isn't a North Liberty challenge, >> right? This is uh you're seeing these types of investments all over the state um uh to to treat wastewater. >> Yep. >> Yeah. And and I guess one other thing to add too with the facility plan as we were working through that and we were seeing our opinion of costs coming through what they were. We did make some changes to how what phases things occurred in that allowed us to continue to meet u what we need to to meet the discharge permit which ultimately is what what the city is held to from DNR's standpoint but then help balance the cost out or or make this project less expensive than what it would have otherwise been. So, we're always looking at that cuz we like you are are cognizant and want to make sure that um that we're being responsible with with how we're moving forward. >> Well, North Liberty Andrew and his staff have been the case study of how to make those membranes last a lot longer than what the manufacturer even stated. And there's people coming here from, you know, all over to ask him how he's doing it. >> Yeah, you guys have one of the cleanest wastewater plants in the state of Iowa, so they do a great great job with it. >> That was a great question. I'm glad you asked that. Are there any others? >> Thank you, Jenny. >> Yeah, you bet. Anytime. Thanks. Thanks. >> True. >> With that, are there any other questions? Tracy, can we move on to roll call, please? >> Won, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> Liebold, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> For >> I. >> Motion carries 5. Thank you both. Item 12 is the splash pad project for Centennial Park phase 2. And item A is public hearing regarding proposed plans, specifications, and estimate of cost for the Centennial Park phase 2 project. Not seeing anyone in the audience wishing to address Council Tracy. Did we receive any information? I will close the public hearing and move to item B, which is resolution number 2026-24. This is a resolution finally approving and confirming plans, specifications, and estimate of costs for the Centennial Park phase 2 improvements projects. Could I get a motion for consideration first, please? >> So moved. >> Second by Park, seconded by Liebold. Josiah, I think maybe you've been queued up to give us a little bit of an overview of this. >> Got a couple slides here. >> Thank you. >> For the group to give you a feel for the splash pad and um how it lays out here. Uh this is this is part of the Centennial Park master plan. It's phase two. The event center was phase one. Um splash pad is here. Uh you can see the event center there in the back or at the top of the image. You can see the existing playground to the right. Um this grass area here between the two and the loop road. We've got we've got a great splash pad here with all sorts of uh amenities. um some sidewalks and things to connect the event center to the splash pad and to the to the parking lot and the playground. Um here's kind of a zoomed in view. You can see the the shelter in the back. The the building houses um restrooms, four restrooms on each side. Uh you can see the drinking fountain there. It's got the the overhang there for the picnic and shelter area. Not the shelter, the picnic area. Um, in the back of the building there's some storage room, not only for like the event center and things for them to store materials, but uh for the parks department, they've got a garage space in there for storage and and maybe park like a gator or something equipment that they use. Um, inside the center of the building, um, getting kind of ahead of myself, but there you go. You can see this overview of what the building looks like. In the middle, you've got some mechanical room. Um, you've got a mechanical room, you've got chemical storage, uh, all the the guts basically to support the splash pad operation. Uh, you can see the restrooms on the side and the in the green garage spaces, um, and storage spaces. Um, I'll go back to this one. Um, lot of features. Uh, not only will it be great because of the size and uh, how dynamic everything is, but a lot of cool different water features there that are planned. Um, you can see the shade structures and things and, uh, limestone blocks and seating areas. So, um, real nice space to be in. Um, and then I'll just wrap it up. Here's a couple rendering images of of what this would look like. see the playground there in the back in the main parking lot. You can see the event center there off to the left in the background and that that's it. So, um yeah, feel free to ask any questions, but just wanted to give you a feel for like what what is this? What's this going to look like? Does it include >> uh George, thank you for this information. Looks really just incredible. Actually, um, one question I had, is there thought or was it considered for concessions at all? I know when you get to the to the pool here in town that the concessions is a is a nice amenity. Um, but I also know there's staffing and then there's stocking and different things like that. Just out of curiosity because I if I saw it, somebody else is going to ask about it is basically what I'm thinking. We talked about it and to your point, staffing is an issue and then having it out h having the concessions out here. Uh obviously being in the building, but it could potentially be a security issue, people wanting to get in and >> um and frankly the risk just isn't worth the the reward from a concessions standpoint. People can bring their own stuff in. >> Yeah. No, I appreciate the consideration. >> Yeah. >> But people will be able to bring their own picnics and and whatnot. Sure. And the I saw I believe it was called a waiting pool. Just out of curiosity about how deep is that? >> Uh in the upper right there, the water journey tide pool. >> Yeah. Or the tide pool. Yeah, that's what I >> think that that is more >> lowkey right there. Just it's not like a pool. >> Yeah. Probably ankle deep or so. >> Yeah. Less. Yeah. Ankle at the highest. The the whole idea here is no lifeguards. >> Less than >> water. It's under an inch of water. >> Under an inch. >> It's under an inch. >> Got it. >> I think the water journey is more if you're like four years old or five. >> I'm looking at the spray can rules out there. Is there space uh is there changing space uh either for young ones or like changing of clothes in the bathroom space or is it just strictly toilet space and handwashing >> cuz it's not a locker room, right? >> It's not a locker room. Uh you can kind of see there's two restrooms on the top of the building and two in the bottom. One is has adult changing table so I assume is a bigger uh maneuverability space, right Natalie? >> Yeah. So, um, all four restrooms apart. >> We have microphones, but they might not be that powerful. >> Yeah. So, all four restrooms are ADA compliant. Um, so there is enough room to maneuver around within them. Um, so we wouldn't necessarily call them a dressing room, per se. Um, the larger restrooms, they do have um an adjustable uh adult changing station or table in them. Um, so typically those tables are pushed up against the wall. um so they're not taking up that space that they would when they're down. Um so there is a pretty good amount of space um when you consider being able to kind of walk in there, change your clothes and and come back out. So >> so in individual private use locked door not >> correct. They also they'll have they have indicators on them to say whether or not they're occupied and that kind of thing as well. And then mayor lastly with usually splash pads are water in up and then out. I'm guessing there's no reclaim. It's just pumped. What's >> Oh, this is reclaimed. >> Yeah. >> So reclaimed, treated and reused. >> Yeah. >> Yes. >> Okay. >> Yeah. There's also a secondary UV system as well um for cleaning and treating the water. >> Excellent. This this of course is much bigger than our current one which is a dump on the ground, right? Um but this one is reusable. >> Excellent. >> Yeah. On that first slide there um >> there is down in the corner it explains that um you're looking at 8,000 square ft of colored um pavement for that splash pad area. >> Is some of that that r soft rubber or it's all concrete? >> Um it's a combination of so there are some softer spots. Um specifically when you get to the large um central um play feature um the water play structure with slide kind of in the middle there. Um because it has a slide um and the slide's only I want to say it's like less than 3 ft is the slide. But because it has a slide it does require a softened landing space. Um and because it has elevated platform, it also requires that um softened kind of fall protection um that a playground in general would would require. Um so it's a combination of of soft spaces depending on um the different components uh mixed with um the coloring um I guess finish top coating. Yeah. >> And like the one we have now is on demand. So you go push the button and it'll run for a certain amount of time on rainy days like this. Is it going to be controlled remotely by staff? Is it going to run all the time? Like what's the idea there? >> So some of the features do you have like a push to operate kind of situation? Um there are other features that will be running all the time or are on timers um to kind of go off in certain time periods. Um so there's kind of a combination thereof. There is a controls panel. Um I'm not entirely sure if that can be app controlled. Um or if it has to be set timers wise and such with from within the building. Maybe something to look at, Ryan, because if I don't know what the cost savings would be over the over the season, but if it's, you know, it's a few thousand dollars on a control that staff can shut off when it's raining for three straight days, it might pay for itself. Just an idea. >> Yeah, I agree. >> So, how much water a day is this going to run? You think? >> I do not know that off the top of my head. So it' be just interesting how much and then how much we think we can reclaim. >> Right. >> So, >> and is this strictly for the daytime or is there going to be some lights? >> Park hours. >> Yeah. >> Parkour. >> Yeah. So realistically the only there there are site lights that are kind of you know general area lights and then there are um you know typically we call them wall packs um up against the building but they would it would be park hours >> and actually saying that now it we may well we're still we we still need to talk a bit about that because I'm not sure how long we allow the pens the pen meadows one to operate. I'm not sure we allow them after dark. So, we'll I'll get back to you on that. >> Looks awesome. >> Yeah, it does. >> Yeah, this is exciting. >> Are there any other questions? >> Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> Smith, >> I. >> I. Lie. >> I. >> Park. >> I. >> Won. >> I. Motion carries 5. Thank you again. Item 13 is UCD Holdings LLC proposed lot 2 urban central district part two preliminary site plan and we'll start with staff and commission recommendations. Russ, >> thank you mayor. Um I thought it'd be a good idea to kind of go over refresher on some of the UCD um development. Um so this is urban central district. The area in red is is the urban central district, but it is the commercial and residential portion. And the area that's uh circled in blue uh would be the residential structures in in the commercial residential structure. This is the urban central district what we would call a horizontal mixeduse development uh as opposed to a vertical mixeduse uh development. A vertical mixed use would be like commercial on the first floor and residential above. These are are separated buildings. So we call them horizontal mixed use uh in the same development. The urban loss is to the east east side uh of the muddy creek there. And um nothing that we're seeing tonight, but planning for that is is still ongoing. Um just to give you an idea of where the lots that that you are considering for approval are tonight. Uh this is lot two. Uh this is the medical facility. Lot three is the commercial building. And then lot six is the multif family building. So a pretty big chunk of of the urban central district is being considered tonight and and will hopefully be under construction here soon. Just a couple other things that we're seeing with the urban central district. Uh trail connections. I highlighted those in green. Currently we we don't even have a sidewalk on the east side of Ranchaw. We would have an 8 foot wide trail on the east side as well as an east west trail that connects from that trail on Ranchaw to the Northridge trail adjacent to Muddy Creek. And then as part of this, we would look to uh partner with the developer to extend that 8 foot wide trail up to Cherry Street and then also construct a 6 foot five or six foot wide sidewalk along the south side of Cherry Street. Really ultimately connecting all of those those missing links that just been missing for so many years. And again, we'll have this street connection. It'll be a private street uh that will connect from Commercial Drive, um make its way through the development and and you'll be able to go out onto Ranchaw or you'll be able to meander through uh up to Cherry Street. It will connect up to Cherry Street. Um I'm kind of thankful that there is a little bit of twist and turns to get out of Cherry Street. I think we all recognize with the community center people uh use that as a cut through and sometimes you just make it a little bit more of a pain. They'll just choose to stick to the main roads which would probably be a a better thing than just I'm sure they'd love to have a lot of traffic into the development as long as they're shopping there just not cutting through the development. And then please recall in the upcoming uh CIP we have this connection down to um Zeller and so you'll be able to actually turn off of Zeller and uh turn into the development. So the timing of that's um pretty great. Kind of back to lot two. Uh it's zone CUC3 which is specific to this area. That's our central urban highintensity district. Future land use is urban high intensity. And I probably won't go through this all of them, but they're all the same zoning and same land use. And uh here's a site plan. Um they were able to we reduce some of the setbacks in the uh CUC3. It's it's 10 ft. Um and they've actually pushed that building all the way up to Ranchaw, which I really appreciate. Uh planners love that. And so they'd be on the north side of the main drive coming into the development. Um, and I I really think with that reduced setback, even though it's kind of the back of the building, they've done some um nice design features, it's it's really going to have a nice presence on on Ranchaw Way as opposed to being set, you know, way back uh with a with a large parking area in front. Uh it's just a grading plan. Um here is uh some design renderings of of what the building would look like. Um, I'll talk a little bit about this in a second, but I did work with Brandon and his team to kind of work on some enhancements to this design really being a front door to the development that I think um are reflected here that I'm I'm pretty happy about. And again, some other renderings showing it. Um, this is a large building. It's like 32,000 square feet. So, it's three-story building. So, this is a this is what we consider a significant anchor building in the development. We don't have any objections uh that were received. Uh we do have one finding that the request achieves consistency with approval standards and the planning commission accepted that listed finding and forwards a request to this city council with a recommendation for approval. Uh and that vote was unanimous. >> Thank you, mayor. >> Thanks, Russ. Are there any questions? I was curious with the uh >> smaller setback off Ranchaw. Are we concerned about like on Commercial Drive and Cherry Street they have the you know 2 three feet tall brick uh on either side of the road as you're turning on those roads off Ranchaw. >> Oh, >> I guess my my concern is like if a car, you know, it's really close to the road there. If a car I'm sure that odds are slim, but if a car left the roadway and could drive right into the building, is there has there been any, you know, discussions about that or anything that could go there to prevent that from happening? >> No, I know outside of and if I know that happened on uh on front Deuke Street. Yeah. And I I probably think, well, that never it probably wouldn't happen, but it does, you know, and I I don't know that we could prevent all of those things. And and and no, just this is instead of a 25 foot setback, it's been reduced down to 10. I think it's actually a little bit more than 10 because there's an overhang, but it's it's it's not significant. Um, but sure, it could happen. >> I mean, I' I'd add from the the street network perspective, there's clear zones on streets based on type and speed. And I mean it's moved up, but it's still outside of what are the standard design for clear zones for roadways and recovery of vehicles. So >> yeah, and there's a >> it's like designing for you can't design for everything obviously. >> Sure. >> And it's okay to have a trail right there too, right? You know, yeah, >> people. It's safe enough for people to walk by it, right? >> It's a good point. For some context, um, other other buildings that are on Ranch Shaw to the north or to the south, the post office, for example, is this as close as the post office is? >> Marginally, I think the post office may be at a 25t setback where this is at like 12 ft. So, it's it's marginal. >> Okay. So, it could be closer than that. Okay. And then so if we're going north then um >> uh I don't think any of those buildings are uh close uh to to uh to Ranchaw. Okay. >> As far as the entrances into the UCD, is there any, you know, plan for signage or >> Great question. Um well the one thing that we do have we we um this will be a similar like streetcape that we have uh down the street close to fairway where it's the brick uh crossing and then and then landscape uh islands on either and then and then yes I think there would be development signage um at the entrance way >> entrance and building or not allowed on the building with entrance. >> You have them on the entrance and building. Yep. And I'll I'll show you a neat example here in a couple other slides on on some of the other development I think of of the overall vision being achieved. So when this gets built or and maybe it's more of a Brandon question, but you got to just put that roadway all the way in and then build around the road and fill these things in or >> Yeah, we're going to do a whole lot of road construction beforehand. So it'll be able to go the people who are going to be in the building housing will they'll be able to get out onto the commerce and they won't have to go all the way back up and around. >> Yeah, they'll they'll have three maybe four. >> Okay. Are there any other questions for Russ? >> Thank you, Brandon. Anything else to add? >> Yeah, no presentation, but certainly happy to answer any questions anyone has. Okay, I I have a question that'll come up for lot three and lot six, but I'll just give you a heads up right now. Uh there's a terrific trail uh that's across the southern part of this lot and obviously the one on Ransaw Way. Um pedestrian accessibility is not really that much of a concern on this lot that as we get to three and six, can you keep that in the back of your mind and point that out to me where sidewalks are >> from the inside of the development out to Ranchaw. So you can address it now or wait until we get to the We will have uh multiple crosswalks that'll we'll definitely have to highlight those. They'll it'll be noticed. Um some of the further detail as we go into development, right, is we'll have some I'll call them picture points or opportunities where along the walking trail, there'll be like a a designated place for people to sit and that'll be strategically located where those crosswalks are. So, it'll be very noticeable. And so I I understand that for this lot, but when we get to lot three and lot six internally, there won't be >> So yeah, if we go I don't know if we can really see, but it'll be on the east side of the strip centers that sit down to the south. It'll run north south and then it'll connect up that way. So basically along the front of all of the commercial buildings will have a sidewalk that will connect and not go out into the parking lot. >> Does that make sense? >> Sort of. And I guess maybe that's my that's my point. Is there any internal sidewalk coming from the that internal street to to these these businesses? >> Um there yeah there is on the north side of this plan and then there will be on the far south side that runs all the way along the south southern part but there will be nothing in the internal portion of the parking lot. >> Okay. And does that concern you at all or how difficult? I mean, you talk about crosswalks and things like that, but people, for example, wanting to walk here from the inside are going to be walking across parking lots. There won't be a sidewalk or a a path for them to walk on. >> You're talking about individuals that like get out of their car. >> Yeah. or if they're in this, you know, what's going to be developed in lot six here. If if they're walking up, they have to go up to the bike path or they have to go down to um the commercial drive to to make their way out. There's not a there's not a protected path to walk from the east to the west through those parking lots. >> Okay. >> Is that is that a possibility? >> Um the one day I tell John Martner from MMS he doesn't need to attend. >> That would be an MMS question. So, I don't know that answer. Uh, >> you he he is here quite a bit and doesn't have to go through this. So, yeah, you might owe him a little bit. I'm like I said, I'm okay in lot three cuz it's it's it's a pretty awesome trail that's going to be right there. But as we get deeper into these other lots, there's just not a a pedestrian friendly way it seems to get from that internal street to um these commercial buildings. >> And maybe what we can do is when we go on to the next one, I can highlight where those are to make sure that Yeah. you see the whole picture. >> That'd be great. >> Okay. I'll move on to item C for item 13, which is resolution number 2026-25. And this is a resolution approving the preliminary site plan for urban central district part two, proposed lot to North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second by Lol, seconded by Forney. >> Anything additional right now on this one, >> mayor? obviously not a design professional, but when I look at places like uh Costco, it's, you know, once you park, it's all parking lot, but they have paintings and curb checks and things that funnel, you know, people to a certain area. You know, I I I don't know if that's possible if there's no built-in sidewalks, but actually marked paving uh walkways through the through the parking lot is just an idea. >> Anything else? Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> Smith, >> I. >> I. >> Lieold, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> Wesson, >> I. >> Motion carries. 5-0. Item 14 then is UCD Holdings LLC proposed lot three, urban central district part two, preliminary site plan. Back to you, Russ. >> Okay. A similar presentation. This would be on the south side of the street. Um, this is I believe it was over a 10,000 uh square foot commercial uh multi-tenant building with a drive-thru. Um, and again, here it is for lot three. Um, again, same zoning, same future land use. Um, here's that uh site plan that you see showing that location there. I do kind of think, you know, kind of thinking about this as we we kind of reviewed it. I mean, you have the 8-oot sidewalk along Ranchaw, you'll have the five foot sidewalk along um north side of Commercial Drive. Um and and I I appreciate what you said, mayor, probably no more than probably the most. Um, and I think what we we we thought about was trying to link up those on the east side of those buildings, trying to make sure there's a link so that the pedestrian can can connect kind of going northward of that. I appreciate what you're saying. If they just kind of started up in the in the middle part of the property and tried to go do east, but we try and say, okay, if they went north, they could go to that one or, you know, south to that sidewalk and then, you know, access that pedestrian way on the east side of those buildings that would be linked up. And I I think if I remember correctly, that's what we were thinking. But I'm just sorry, wanted to add that real quick. Um, and grading plan. Um, here is kind of some renderings of what the building would look like. And again, um, west elevation kind of facing Ranchaw and then north elevation. You can kind of see the the color and the the renderings kind of add that pop. And what we really talked about with with this is just kind of trying to create um some flare for for lack of a better phrase, just kind of at that entrance way to kind of give it give it a feeling of a little bit more of an urban feeling. And I I think um as I mentioned, I kind of challenged Brandon and his team to kind of enhance the design a little bit. I think they responded to um some what I would call some subtle design changes. And again, and here's on the left kind of what the initial submission looked like. and and um to the right is what the current proposal is. And they're very subtle um but trying to emphasize that corner of the building at the entrance road. And it's difficult to see here, but increase the height of the building a little bit to add more prominence and and to kind of try to be in scale with the building on the north side uh a little bit. And then kind of um also kind of at initial submission for lot two is was this is the initial submission on the left and this is on the right. And I just kind of wanted to bring these together to kind of show kind of really this trying to create this feature kind of at that main entrance to kind of give it this um a unique character um is is really what really I thought we had been talking about all this time with UCD and I I really think um they've done a pretty good job of it. Um again, no objections were received uh for this request either. Um similar finding that it achieves consistency with approval standards and the planning commission uh recommends that the forwarded the request to the city council with a recommendation for approval and that that recommendation was 6 as well. All right. So, I don't want to beat this anymore one more time, but tell me about pedestrian access to this lot. I see it coming in on the the northwest corner up there, but I don't believe I I see anything else for pedestrian access coming in to this and then the the two lots to the south until you get down to that corner again. Is that correct? >> That's correct. Yeah. You talk about public sidewalks, it'd be on the north side of Commercial Drive, >> west side of Ranchaw. We'd also look to make a pedestrian connection along the frontage of those buildings that those all connect. But you're right, if it's a if it's a midb block >> Yeah. >> kind of crossing there, there is no at that point dedicated pedestrian access. >> Yeah. And you know, if if this is going to be a walkable um you know, part of the city, I feel we we need to get folks from that internal street to those buildings and even if they're just in the parking lot. Um Brent used Costco as an example, but they have a really fantastic sidewalk right down the middle of their parking lot. So people aren't walking out where people are driving. Um it's really safe. Um and it's out of the way. And I think that really something like that. I mean, it might take up some parking spaces. I'm I'm not sure what I'm asking to be done here, but some something accessible like that so people have a protected path through a a parking space like that, a parking lot a couple of times might be I I think it would be really helpful considering all of the pedestrian activity we're promoting in this area. >> I understand entirely what you're what you're looking for and I I think it could be done >> okay >> relatively easily. >> I'll take that. Are there any other questions for Russ? >> More of a comment for me. The artistic element of that building. I really appreciate that. And like he said, you know, from the beginning, this was always going to be like a you know, have that sort of vibe. And uh, you know, I even think about, you know, our public art initiative and if there's, you know, somewhere a possibility within this, you know, that there could be something like that, too. But, um, I love to see that and I love to would love to see it continue just as far as some of that creativity and and, uh, take some chances. It's going to it's going to they're already beautiful buildings. I I will say that. And they they look great, but a little little flare never hurt anybody if you ask me. Thank you. Welcome, >> Russ. How deep are those storm uh storm water retention basins? And you know what? I'm going to ask Are these just say are these these are these are wet ponds? Yeah. >> Northeast. Are they going to be wet ponds or dry? >> Believe they are wet, right? >> Excellent. >> No. >> Oh, they're dry. I'm sorry. >> Not good. >> I don't like that at all. >> No. >> So, what's >> Go back to the >> So, what's the design standard for that? And how's it going to look in the middle of July when >> that one right there? >> 95 degrees for >> in the upper legs. >> The upper right. Yeah, that would be dry. >> Well, the first one for lot two >> and I for lot two. >> I always go back to the the detention basin at Heritage Christian. It's awful and the city is constantly on the school about mowing it and it looks terrible. I This has been a really sticky thing with me for a really long time and I I think it's and this isn't on Brandon. This is on us as as staff. I our design standards for these have to change because they are they are ugly as sin. And especially in a really nice development like this, it is it is going to stick out like a sore thumb. If there's not plantings that can both live when there's storm water like tonight where it will fast rise come up and then when it recedes it'll still look nice and not look like a trash trash deposit bin when all the plastic bags come through the storm sewers after washing the streets off. >> Yeah, I mean I you're right. If it's not maintained then it will be bad. Uh, I do recall that the planting plan for that one is um like a a low lowmaintenance low water type of mix. It's not just seed that's out there. It's it's for that. But regardless of that, if it's not maintained, yes, then that will be the outcome. What is the difference like to create one that does fill up with water as opposed to to be dry? >> Is it a huge difference? >> Well, it's the difference in the depth of it and the size it takes uh on the on the site because in order to get deep enough to have enough standing water to maintain what you need um so that doesn't like atrophy or you know it's we're usually looking for most of it's 10 ft deep. So when we get in a spot like this, um not just from the the space perspective, but the depth of the water table and what we're dealing with. Um in order to do that, you'd be digging down below where the water flows, if that makes sense. Um so we're we're in a spot here where we're very near Muddy Creek. We're very near where all the water's bottoming out. And so that that would be the challenge here. um both depth and space. Yeah. >> And for the record, the storm sirens in Johnson County are going all over going off because of what looks like something near West Branch. So, we're safe here. We have a message into our police or our fire chief though, just to confirm that for us. >> Wouldn't be the first time though. We know exactly where >> exactly. Unfortunately, we've done this before, haven't we, Brian? uh comment from me just on uh to Brandon and your team and Russ and your team. Um I really appreciated the the initial and then the updated views. I I think um that collaboration, that understanding, that feedback, incorporating that um is really just a a great example of, hey, you know what, we all want the right things here. We're all working towards the right things. Let's make sure that it that it is right. Uh so thank you to you and thank you to you Russ and and your teams as well because I think it's um you it's a significant significant improvement um from what initial and and where we're at presently. So thank you. >> Credit credit to their team. They were they were super responsive and and of course we we'd love to talk about it. Jumped right on a a quick meeting and and saw it. It probably was the easiest um feedback I've I've ever gotten and and reacted right away. So, um, made made my life a lot easier. >> Are there any other questions for Brandon? I think we've kind of covered everything at once here. I'll move on to item C then is resolution number 2026-26. This is a resolution approving the preliminary site plan for urban central district part two, proposed lot 3, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. Second by Park, second by Libel. Are there any other questions? >> Mayor, I'll just make clarification uh uh with Brandon being here and with those at uh at home. Uh my criticism tonight is is of our current internal uh processes uh and what I don't like about them, not about this particular developer. Uh he has followed the rules. Um I'm looking to change those rules in the future. Anything else? >> Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> Park, >> I >> Smith, >> I. >> Won, >> I. >> Liealt, >> I. >> Motion carries 5-0. >> And item 15 is UCD Holdings LLC proposed lot six, Urban Central District Part Two Preliminary Site Plan. >> One more time, Russ. >> One more time. This is uh So, this would be the last one. This would be lot six. This would be adjacent to Commercial Drive. This is a four-story building over one level of parking. Um so it's a pretty significant building. It's um it's going to add, I think, a lot of presence. It'll be a similar building constructed adjacent to Cherry. Um but again, just to remind you, this is where lot six would be. Uh same zoning, same land use, and again the the footprint >> of the building. Um, I would note in the CUC3 when we talked about reduced setbacks, uh, in this case in the zoning district, as you get above 35 ft, it has a normally a 10-ft setback adjacent to residential, but if you increase the height for every foot of building height above 30 ft, you need an additional setback. And so that had the effect of pushing the building a little bit further west um, instead of crowding that property line, which um, I think I think is a good thing. And I'm I'm I'm happy about the provision just to certainly you don't want a towering building um you know right next to the property line. So pushing that away I think was a was a good provision that was added to the ordinance. Um here are the building renderings. Um they are taking advantage some of the recent changes that this council approved. So, I know they're appreciative of that, but again, emphasizes some other things like um increasing the height of the building, making the the building project a little bit more than just focusing on masonry. And I think um this is a this is a outstanding example of of of some design creativity that just isn't limited to masonry. And and I think this is going to look great. Um again, no objections received and the planning commission similar unanimous uh one finding chief consistency with our approval standards and forwarded the request to the city council with a unanimous recommendation. Thank you, mayor. >> Thank you. >> Any last questions for Russ Brendan? >> I just had one quick question. Easy enough. So four and four and five as you know you don't have anything there yet. Are you going to probably be working on these fairly soon or is that just going to be kind of see how things go or? >> Yeah. Uh our expectation I think is you would probably see everything we talked about going vertical this year. Um yeah we've still got some horizontal infrastructure that we've got to finish putting in. We you didn't quite get everything done last year but yeah I think everything's going to go vertical pretty quick. >> Right. So, yeah, I just was concerned that maybe it would be an empty lot sitting there and yeah, wouldn't look >> We're going to do our best to go fast possible. >> On on the ones tonight, everything that's gotten approved tonight, are you are you ready to go vertical on these? Are we going to >> uh Yes, close. The medical facility will happen just as soon as we can make happen. Um the strip center will be right behind that and then the third phase would be would be this building. Uh that's probably the only one I would hesitate on, you know, on what whether that's late summer or if we can get it in right before the frost, somewhere in that range. >> It's exciting. >> Yeah. >> Thanks, Brandon. >> Uh just one more comment from me and and it's to Brandon and staff. Um you know, this is uh a significant effort and I think it was in our packet and called out as much uh to get all of this a to this to to the initial spot. B, now we're starting to see what it what it looks like from an artist representation. We're talking about going vertical. Uh the amount of lift and investment and just um effort to get to this spot. Congratulations to you, Brandon, your team and then uh our internal uh true north liberty team as well because um this is something that's going to outlast all of us, right? So uh congratulations on a on a legacy investment here. >> Thank you. Item C is resolution number 2026-27. This is a resolution approving the preliminary site plan for urban central district part two proposed lot 6, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second by Liebold, seconded by Wson. Sorry, Tanya. Are there any other questions? >> Tracy, could we have roll call? Orney, >> I >> Park. >> Hi, >> Smith. >> Hi, >> Libel. >> I motion carries 5-0. Thanks, Brendan. >> Item 16 is old business. Anything for us to rehash. >> 17 is new. Sorry. Sorry, Paul. >> No, it's all good. Uh, I saw we made a payment to the group creative service and so I just wanted to hear if we've had any, you know, what the status is on applications for that steering committee and how that's coming. >> Yeah, the uh the mayor and I are going to be talking about that on Thursday. We don't there's no update at this point. We once we approve the contract, we owed them a retainer basically or a first installment. >> Okay. >> And now we'll get going on it. So, nothing new on on that at this moment. >> And then just real quick, one of the other things about the packet was the what the facilities manager has been up to. And I was it was a lot. And so I think I'm sure everybody's guy included happy about uh all the work that's happening by the work being done by the facilities manager. So just pointing that out. >> Thank you. Item 17, new business. And I will motion or entertain a motion to adjurnn. So move >> second. >> Been moved and seconded. Any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. I. >> Opposed. We are.