Title: Tree & Storm water Advisory Board on January 14, 2026
Published: 2026-01-15 01:16:34
Video ID: 6caQwyAXjk4

All right, good evening. It's 7 o'clock. I'll get our uh tree and storm water advisory board meeting for January 14 started. Um I'm going to call this meeting to order. >> Kevin's turn, isn't it? >> Oh, yeah. It is. Oh, yeah. [laughter] Give me that guy. >> All right. There you go. [laughter] >> All right. Um Yes. Pushing rolls. Uh >> old habits. >> Yes. [laughter] Um, we'll call the meeting to order. Uh, first order of business would be to approve the minutes uh from October 8th. I get a motion to approve those minutes. >> So moved. >> Second. >> All right. And all in favor of that? >> I. >> Any opposed? And so that motion carries. We'll move on to public comment. Nobody in the audience here. You guys have anything from public? >> Nothing was passed forward on me. Very [clears throat] good. And then tree reports. We'll go with you, Brian, on that. >> Yay. >> Good evening, everyone. Hope you had a great holiday season. So, um, for tree reports, uh, it's going to be pretty quick here. Uh, we did the Tree City USA 2025 application. Uh, it's submitted and approved by the Iowa DNR. Uh, it moves on to the Arbor Day Foundation for approval before we get our award. And if we uh meet the requirements, it'll be our 31st year consecutive year. So um to become a Tree City USA, it takes four uh four standards. Uh you have to have a tree board or department, which is form a tree board or department to delegate responsibility of city trees, which is part of what we're doing here today. Um you have to have a tree care ordinance which you establish a community ordinance that provides clear guidance for planting, maintaining and removing trees. Uh you also have to have a community forest program, maintain a community forest program with an annual budget of at least $2 per capita. Um and anything go into that like labor, volunteer hours, uh tree materials, you know, purchasing of trees, that kind of kind of thing. And then an Arbor Day observance and proclamation. You celebrate Arbor Day and pass an official holiday proclamation. Um, next item, Mid-Americ 2026 trees, please grant is submitted. Um, we're going to be putting uh like 10 or 12 trees in a Centennial kind of on the south side along the bike trail. Uh, it's to kind of give more shade to the walking trail around there. And I think we are going to be installing more benches kind of around there. So they'll be kind of placed around around that area. Um and then National Arbor Day is April 24th, 2026 and that is when uh when we do our proclamation will be before that on the 14th. Um and uh yeah, as far as other tree topics, um from me, kind of similar as uh last time, trees are all sleeping and dormant. Best time to do your trimming now. You can cut off large amounts, all that you want really. Tree won't even notice. Um I haven't not really a whole lot of pests this time of year. Um and uh yeah, pretty much it for uh for that section. Um, and then Muddy Creek and Trail Cleanup is April 11th, uh, is at 9:00 a.m. at the rec center, meet in the north parking lot. Um, we usually do it kind of that first weekend, but we moved it back to avoid Easter weekend because I think that's Easter weekend. Kind of have a little better turnout when it's not Easter weekend. Sure. >> So yeah, that's uh about all I have unless you guys have any questions about anything or >> tree related, park related. >> No questions. I would just encourage anyone who can to join for Muddy Creek cleanup. It's a it's always interesting to see how much comes out of Muddy Creek and how important that uh that cleanup day is. So usually have a good turnout for it thankfully. Okay. Um so next we'll go to storm water report Mike. >> Yep. Good afternoon evening. Afternoon. Evening. >> It qualifies. >> Um we'll have that first one here. They are stocking trout again this year on March 20th in uh Ly Center Pond. So that will be usually it's pretty packed that day and then the following week you'll see people out there trying to catch those trout for all day long. So, reminder, if you do fish there, you do need a trout stamp for that reason. Um, let's see. We're going to do we're going to try to burn again this year um at S Centennial Park. We didn't do last year due to the construction that was going on. But now that that's completed, I think we should be fine to burn uh the Bios Whales right next to the the new event center there that could use it. It really helps a lot. every year we do it. Um, and then we're going to try to get the new area we have out by Goose Lake, which is the north west corner of town. There's a big lake there next to Heartland Trucking. Um, we're going to try to burn a pretty pretty large area out there. We did that two years ago. We burnt about half of it. This year, I'd like to burn the whole thing. Hopefully, the conditions will be in favor. last year. We've never got never got the winds, never got the the dry dry temps we needed to get it done. So, that'll be great to burn that whole thing. Um that and that all just, you know, we have a pretty much a month window there that we sign up for for the permits and then it's kind of one of those, you know, hey, it looks good in two days, let's just do it type things. So, there's really not a lot of warning when that happens. Um, and then some other little stuff. I know it doesn't seem like we're going to have a winter this year, but it is coming and we're hopefully going to get a lot more snow. Um, just a reminder if you're able to um and you have a storm intake in front of your house, you know, those get blocked up with with snow and ice. You know, just if you can try to dig out just a small area so that that can take the the run off when we do get the melts. And we'll usually get some warm warm temperatures and then like a good half inch of rain on top of the snow that really causes that to melt fast. So we can help limit the localized flooding. Us as city staff will run around and we'll clear out as fast as we can when that happens. But a little bit of help does go a long way. But be careful in the busy streets. you know, I can't I guess condonia to get out on [snorts] main thoroughares and start digging out intakes, but if you can, that would be great. And then, um, you know, salt application, again, I say it every year, you know, just what you think you need. You probably only need about a tenth of that. So, you don't need to you don't need to be walking on a beach of sand on your your sidewalk in your driveway. just a it's a very small amount is all you'll need to help get that melted down because all of that's going to end up in the the ponds and muddy creek around us and it doesn't need that doesn't need that at all. So I do have some literature in the office if you have any questions or or want some guidance on how much to put down. I've got some stuff I can I can provide to help with that. Other than that, you know, the weather's kind of I don't know. I can't figure it out this year. [laughter] So, >> it's [clears throat] crazy and then it kind of got nice and >> yeah, I'm pretty sure we're going to get hit pretty hard pretty soon. So, hopefully, I guess, >> always has a way of evening out normally, right? I guess other than that, if you guys have any questions or comments or anything, >> how is it looking for like the [clears throat] SQR type stuff? Um, how is the funding for that going? >> That is good for this spring. I still have probably I bet I still have about six to 7,000 available yet for this spring. Um, I do have some people the funds are accounted for. They're on the schedule to get done. So, there's an opening for, you know, another six 7,000 worth of projects to come in this spring yet. >> And then that'll renew, of course, July one, all that funding. So, we'll start fresh for the fall season. >> Very good. Anything else? Uh, then we'll move on to old business. anyone that has any old business to bring up. And otherwise, it doesn't sound like we have any new business um from what we've heard so far. Just kind of a note to thank the u um the scout that are sponsoring our Muddy Creek cleanup. Usually we do it usually the clean up after happens before our meeting but since we have a little bit of heads up just you know thanking the uh the scout troop 216 and also the scout pack 275 and the 4 uh green castle 4 >> 4 is jos leadership and getting this this yearly project going. >> Very good. Yes, they are very very helpful. Much appreciated. Um, we have it listed as next meeting on July 8th, but we believe that is actually April 8th, 2026 will be the next meeting. Um, as you mentioned, just before Muddy Creek cleanup. Um, and if that's all our business for tonight, I guess if someone wants to motion to adjurnn. >> So moved. I'll say