Title: Eye on North Liberty: Outdoor Pool Delays
Published: 2026-06-03 15:33:55
Video ID: DpYYRqFEthA

Hello, I am Ashley Bjork and I'm the Aquatic Supervisor with the City of North Liberty. We are getting ready for pool season and I know that we're a little bit past Memorial Day weekend and I'm here to share a little bit why. So, this spring we had concrete work completed in March. If you've been to the pool in the last 7 years, you will have noticed we have had patching work done on just about all of our big main joints along the walls. Our wonderful Parks Department has It really helped us out and has done great patches since 2019, but we knew that we had to have some more permanent concrete work done. So, this was our year to complete that work. We would have loved to have that concrete work done in the fall. We just learned that there are only a handful of concrete companies that will work in the pool environment and it took us some time to get those quotes and bids together to be able to have it approved and have that work done. And so, that's why it had to be pushed off until March. Once the concrete work was completed, we had to have the pool painted. The spring weather did not cooperate this year. It rained a lot, but also we had some very cool overnight temperatures that really played a big role in being able to paint. When it gets really cold at night and it's warm during the day, it causes the walls of the pool to sweat, kind of like a soda that you take out of the fridge, and that is not conducive to paint adhering to the walls and to the shell of the pool. So, unfortunately, that work was pushed until the weather was better and was completed as of May 26th, and now we are currently waiting for the paint to cure so we can fill it. The pool painting company we used recommended to have it cure for 4 days because the temperature is in the upper 80s the whole time and sunny most of the days. It's perfect weather to have the paint cure. So, that is what we're doing. So, our estimated timeline here is to hopefully begin filling on Saturday, May 30th in the evening hours. It takes about 24 to 36-ish hours to fill. We will turn on the filters on Sunday afternoon once the water gets to a certain level as long as all of the mechanical filters pumps are working, we should hopefully be in the clear to move forward with our timeline. We have to let the pool filter for 48 hours before we can complete a bucket test. The bucket test will tell us if there are metals in the water. If there are no metals in the water, we'll be able to super shock the pool on Tuesday, June 2nd in the evening and then we'll be able to add stabilizer in the morning on Wednesday, June 3rd. The stabilizer helps hold the chlorine in the water because the sun pulls chlorine out of the water. So, our outdoor pool uses stabilizer to help reduce the amount of chlorine we have to put in. And then, training. So, once the pool is operational, balanced, ready to go, we have to do three emergency action plan trainings for our staff. So, we've done all of our summer training. We've used the indoor pool. Obviously, CPR first aid is land practice in the conference center, but we have to run the emergency action plan trainings at the outdoor pool. Those that have visited our pool know that our air horn goes off and that activates our emergency action plan. And it is my responsibility to make sure that the guards feel confident, comfortable, and know what to do in an emergency so they can keep our community safe. So, we have been very lucky here at the aquatic center and we've been fully staffed since April. So, it's now just getting staff in to practice those EAPs. So, our EAP trainings are scheduled for Wednesday, June 3rd in the evening, Thursday, June 4th, in the evening, and then Friday morning, June 5th, mid-morning, early afternoon. And our plan, as long as everything goes well, is to open in the evening on Friday, June 5th, from 5:00 to 9:00 after the last day of school for the Iowa City School District. And then we'll have limited hours on Saturday, June 6th, and Sunday, June 7th, and then hopefully regular hours beginning June 8th.