Title: City of North Liberty City Council meeting on June 9, 2026
Published: 2026-06-10 14:21:49
Video ID: pNl-RFawhtE

Good evening everyone. I'll open the Tuesday, June 9th, 2026 North Liberty City Council. Tracy, how about a roll call? >> Courtney >> here. >> Lyel >> here. >> Park Smith >> here. >> Way >> here. Thank you. Item three is approval of the agenda. There are no changes. Could I have a motion for approval, please? So moved, mayor, >> second move by Smith, seconded by Wson. All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed. Agenda is approved. Item four is our consent agenda. It looks long and arduous, but it's just routine. That said, are there any questions about it? Seeing none, could I have a motion for approval, please? I move to approve the consent agenda. >> I'll second. >> Move by way and seconded by Smith. All in favor say I. I. >> I. >> Opposed. Consent agenda passes. Thank you. >> Item five is public comment. Uh this is a time for anyone in the audience to address council on and anything on their minds [clears throat] unless it's already on our agenda for public comment. Everybody's got their territory staked out for later on in the agenda. I'll move on to item six then Josiah. This is our engineers report. >> Thank you, mayor. All right. Um thought I'd update you guys on a couple projects in design starting with North Stewart Street improvements. Um our sub our survey work of the site is is pretty much done in the preliminary layout work is underway. Uh we have a schematic design phase due uh later this month to the city staff for review. Um, and just so as a background on this project, we're completely reconstructing this road. So, we're focusing on uh how to find the best alignment for the new roadway, the layout of the new sidewalks, crosswalks, um where the new public utilities are going to go within the street, and um and then also starting to look at if we need [clears throat] locations for easements or acquisitions to make the project buildable. Um that's kind of all in this first phase. So, that's going on there. And a reminder that's uh planned for bidding this this coming winter. Uh we have the Cherry Street Firehouse. The schematic design piece, that first um design piece was submitted at the end of May. We'll have a city staff review meeting uh this month to go through that. And the design team's already rolled into the next the next phase of developing that design. Um, we've also had the uh the construction manager at risk process um paralleling the layout and design for the firehouse. Um, we had a request a request for qualifications and RFQ that went out and we got nine responses last week uh from contractors that are interested. So, that was a good response. city staff's reviewing those and we'll score those and um we'll select the top contractors who respond to that RFQ and invite them on to the next stage. The other piece of that job is the parks and water maintenance building additions. Um that's also in pre-esign. Um that's going to wrap up soon. That's meeting with all the departments, department heads, making sure we have everything planned for the spaces set for who needs what and where. So that is in progress. Two jobs on in construction phase I wanted to update you guys on. Uh first and foremost, Forever Green Road and Jasper Avenue, the roundabout in the roadway improvements. The first the first traffic shift is planned for tonight. Uh I wasn't out there before the meeting, but the temporary road paving has been completed. They're putting up temporary signs and markings. Um, as a reminder, the intersection will still function as a three-way stop the way it does today. Uh, so no no changes. Everybody's still slow. Um, access to Quickstar will remain open. Uh, access back and forth to Tiffen will remain open, but this will allow the first quarter of the roundabout to get underway once once that traffic is moved. Um, and then last one for you is the community center parking lot. the first phase of that work. Um the contractor is on site. They're working through the east phase, which is the east side of the community center. There's a access drive back there and a trail connection. And uh we expect to see both of those paved, the new drive and the trail probably in the next week. And then after that, they will move up to where the community center driveway connects to community drive. So up by the ranchaw house. That'll be the next phase of that. So, um, that will probably be next 7 to 10 days we expect. So, good good progress there. Mayor, that's all I have aside from questions. >> Thanks, Josiah. Are there any questions? [clears throat] Ryan, I'll move on to city administrator report. >> Okay. Thank you, mayor. Just one thing for me tonight [clears throat] and it's a topic that has uh garnered a lot of attention here in the last couple weeks and one that um our folks at city hall have been taking many calls on and that is garbage. Uh we understand folks are are frustrated uh many folks are anyway frustrated. We're hearing from those uh people uh about uh service issues, service interruptions. Uh we're frustrated as well. Uh, and I just want to assure the community we're continuing to have dialogue [clears throat] with LRS every day uh to uh to I guess ensure or to to demand uh better service. And I know they've had some some staffing issues uh as of late as well, but uh that's that's uh frankly not an excuse that's acceptable. Uh so uh I just want to assure this group and the community that we're continuing to to push on them. And if you do find yourself in a situation where your your garbage or recycling has been missed, be sure to uh let us know or let or you can call the LRS number. They they have an email also that you can find on our website. But if you're not getting the res uh resolution you need, please let us know. >> Thanks, Ryan. Any questions or any questions for Ryan? Right. No more. I'll move on to uh my report. Uh just uh two things real quick before I get into the proclamations. I wanted to thank Brian for covering for me for the month of May uh for work rellated uh meetings that I needed to attend. So I appreciate um you taking the helm there and for all of you um as well while I was gone. I do want to if you anyone in the public hasn't had a chance yet, they oftentimes don't until we highlight these things. Uh getting into our packet, uh there's a really uh there's a report every month from our department heads and uh this month I'd like to highlight the libraries report. There's a a couple of things in there that um kind of stuck out with me. Uh I won't uh get into it too much, but uh our our library staff um is in someone commented, maybe it was Jenny, about how they are a bridge to our community. Uh and there's a couple of really excellent um highlights of that. Uh, one of them is our teen circulation and how much that has been um really popular uh with kids in the community and uh the work Andrew is doing there is uh is on point uh to help uh keep those teens interested in coming back to the library. And then on the other uh end of the spectrum, we've got uh 55 plus connection um that Corey at the library uh has has she's really uh built into a a dynamic um not just a meeting uh but something that the community uh really is bridged by uh those activities. So we think that libraries are checking out books and um but as we all know uh there's a lot going on over there. So, I would encourage the public to check out that uh library report that's at the end of our packet. Uh otherwise, I'll move on to two proclamations that I have tonight. Uh the first of which is the Junth National Freedom Day proclamation. [clears throat] Whereas Junth is observed each year on June 19th to commemorate the day in 1865 when enslaved African-Americans in Galveastston, Texas learned of their freedom more than two years after the Emancipation Proclamation was issued. And whereas Junth serves as a reminder of the long and arduous journey toward freedom and equality for all Americans and underscores the resilience, strength, and perseverance of the African-American community. And whereas this observance provides an opportunity for residents of North Liberty to come together, learn from one another, and deepen appreciation for the experiences that shape our community. And whereas the observance of Junth encourages dialogue, education, and understanding of our nation's complex history and the enduring legacy of slavery and inspires efforts to promote diversity, inclusion, and unity in our communities. And whereas Junth provides an opportunity for all Americans to honor the contributions and achievements of African-Americans throughout history, celebrate African-American culture and art, and to recognize the ongoing struggle for racial justice and equality in our society. Now therefore be it proclaimed that I, Chris Hoffman, mayor of North Liberty, do hereby pro recognize June 19th, 2026 as Junth National Freedom Day in the city of North Liberty and would encourage community members to recognize this day through reflection, learning, and participation in community activities. Anyone wishing to speak on that or receive that? Alicia, I know that you're here for the next one. Okay. Our second proclamation is for Pride Month. And whereas Pride Month is celebrated each June to honor the resilience, courage, and contributions of the LGBTQIA plus community, commemorating the Stonewall uprising of 1969 and the ongoing pursuit of justice and equality for all. And whereas LGBTQIA plus individuals have historically faced and continue to face systemic discrimination, social stigmatization, and erasure in public, private, and institutional spaces, resulting in disparities in health, education, housing, employment, and safety. And whereas professional research, including studies by the Human Rights Campaign and the Williams Institute at UCLA School of Law, underscores the disproportionate impact of these inequalities on LGBTQIA+ communities, particularly those who are black, indigenous, people of color, bipac, transgender, non-binary, and disabled. And whereas the city of North Liberty, Iowa recognizes that advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion is essential to building a community where all people are valued, respected, and able to live authentically. And whereas LGBTQIA plus individuals continue to face discrimination, social stigmatization, and barriers that impact their safety, health, and well-being. And whereas our community is strengthened by its commitment to welcoming all people, uplifting diverse voices, and creating spaces where everyone can belong and thrive. Whereas the city of North Liberty upholds a mission rooted in collaboration and connection to honor diversity, advocate for neighbors, amplify voices, recognize our shared humanity, and cultivate a culture of kindness. And whereas pride is both a celebration of identity and a call to care for one another, stand together against injustice and build a more inclusive future together. Now therefore, be it proclaimed that I, Chris Hoffman, mayor of the city of North Liberty, Iowa, do hereby proclaim the month of June 2026 as Pride Month in the city of North Liberty, Iowa. I encourage all residents, businesses, schools, and organizations in North Liberty to join us in honoring the history, struggles, and triumphs of the LGBTQIA community and recommmit to fostering a culture of kindness, inclusion, and belonging throughout the city. Hello, my name is Alicia and I represent the group Anti-Racism and Social Justice in North Liberty. And I just wanted to quickly say thank you very much for proclaiming both of those and for continuing to endeavor to make North Liberty very welcoming and inclusive. Next, >> do you want to take a photo, Alicia? Sure. Right here. Well, I'm wondering if Aby's [clears throat] Excuse me. [clears throat] >> I don't know that situation. >> That's all I have for my report. I'll move on to item nine, which is council reports. And I created this agenda item for our council members to let the public know ways in which they are involved in our community, not just here at city council meetings tonight. So, in no particular order, if you have anything to let us know about that you've been doing on behalf of the city, I would welcome those comments. Okay. I guess I'll start uh first of all, we went to the no meeting uh after the last uh council meeting >> [clears throat] >> um and uh working on some of the budget things for transit and a lot of it had to do with um vehicles and stuff that uh and getting ready for having the reports [laughter] that they haven't have to the federal government to make sure we get uh the funding that we deserve. Uh uh the emergency management ay's building uh continues to go up just past where the roundabout is uh going and we did get the weather service reports from them today. As you know it is hot today. It is going to be hotter tomorrow in the next two days. Pretty good chance of storms. So please pay attention uh to the news on that. And then uh we were able to help with uh the symphony at the Centennial Center. And uh just like the first concert, uh this uh the sound was really excellent. That was pretty well attended. And um you know, people I think really had a good time. Definitely a different crowd, but everybody had a good time. >> Thanks for volunteering to do that. And before I uh move on, I we did get a report from the MO that I uh need to get out to Ryan uh highlighting the projects over the next 5 years that will be getting funding um from the from the federal government that streams through uh the MO to us. So, I was remiss in getting that out to us before this meeting. >> Uh mayor, for the first time in a while, I have nothing to report. I was busy graduating a senior. So, uh congratulations to all the graduates. Uh I I would say a thank you to the city of Corville uh for hosting us at the Extreme Arena. Uh it was great uh for our uh purposes and graduation. So thanks to the city for welcoming our graduates. Congrats. [snorts] >> Uh thank you, mayor. For me, I also was busy graduating as senior. I did have the opportunity to attend uh coffee connections last Friday, though. Um so I just wanted to say thank you to the greater Iowa City folks for facilitating that. Uh Colony Acres for hosting. And I think importantly about this, the community members that are able to join and attend those uh coffee connections or lunch connections that that greater Iowa City puts on. So another way to extend to your earlier comment, extend that community. Um so it's really good with that. I will uh mention the volunteer opportunities that continue to remain with all of the events going on for the city slate uh at the Centennial Center. So, if you have an interest in volunteering, giving back to the community, please check out uh the website for that. And then given that our next meeting is the 23rd, I'll take this opportunity to say happy father's day to all the fathers in our community. So, that's it for me, mayor. Thanks, Brian. >> Um Mayor, um I attended the Orchestra Iowa concert um and it was a lot of fun. Very well attended, I thought. sounded amazing. Um, and uh, I want to keep volunteering to these things because I really enjoy meeting the people and and being out with everybody. Um, I did want to um kind of butt up on um what mayor had mentioned earlier with regards to the library and I was going to with summer here and idle time for families and children to take a look at the calendar for the rec center and the classes, the programs, the things that you can get involved in. Um they have lots of stuff that they do there more than anybody thinks and I really encourage people to take a look at that. Um, and I can't remember what else I was going to say. >> It's all right. It's all right. Thank you. Thank you all for what you're doing outside of these meetings. >> Uh, Ryan, we'll move on to item 10, which is the 2026A bond sale. And item A is resolution number 2026-61. This is a resolution authorizing and approving a certain loan agreement providing for the sale and issuance of general obligation corporate purpose bond series 2026 and providing for the levy of taxes to pay the same. You want to introduce who's with us on why? >> We have [clears throat] uh with us I think most of you recognize Tiana Puler. She's here virtually uh this >> this evening and uh we'll we'll take it from here. Go ahead Tiana. >> Hi. I hope you can all hear me well. Um it's a pleasure to join you even virtually, but I did just want to give some feedback on the sale we had today. Um we sold about $5 million in general obligation corporate purpose bonds. Uh those were sold for the purposes of funding some improvements in Centennial Park, Forever Green Road, Jasper Park, and um sidewalks, uh some parking, um and the I'm sorry, parking lot. Um and we received a double A3 rating. That's the same rating that you have been enjoying. Um Moody's commented on your strong local economy, solid population and full value per capita growth, strong fund balances. Um commented also on your flexibility in revenue r um in revenue raising despite legislative changes uh because of the flexibility that you have remaining in the franchise fee and in your local option sales tax. So, um a stable report there. Uh nothing um surprising in that response from them. But we also did uh receive six bids. These bonds go out about 10 years. Uh the lowest bid was from B Financial Services out of Dallas. The TIC was a 3.17. We had been estimating about a 330. and the the difference between the actual and the estimate has yielded you an additional $365,000 of proceeds that are spendable on projects that have been authorized. [clears throat] Um, I don't know if you guys would have any questions about that, but it's, you know, the the bonds are always wellreceived in the market due to your your good rating. These were actually bank qualified. It's typical for us to to have a handful of biders and and we did again. So, um, nothing out of the ordinary to comment on, but, uh, just to encourage you to keep doing what you're doing and and Moody's is recognizing it and the market's recognizing it. And I think this was a a successful sale and I would recommend that you award the bid or the bonds to uh, BK [clears throat] Financial. >> Thank you, Tiana. >> Sure. >> Glad you could join us virtually tonight and save the uh, the long drive up here. >> Do any of you have any questions for Tiana? All right. Thank you. I know that we'll be coming back to you here in just a few minutes, so enjoy the enjoy the rest. >> Thank you. >> Uh Tracy, could I have uh or I'm sorry, uh could I get a motion for consideration of this resolution, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Moved by Forney, seconded by Smith. You guys have any questions, comments? Tracy, could we have roll call, please? Smith >> I >> Lyold >> I >> Wson >> I >> Forourtney >> I >> motion carries 40. Thank you. Item 11 is a water utility rate increase and item A is public hearing regarding proposed water utility rate increase. Is there anyone in the audience wishing to provide comments on our water rate increase? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing and move on to item B, which is first consideration of ordinance number 2026-08. This is an ordinance amending chapter 92.02 entitled rates for service of the municipal code of North Liberty by adopting a new section 92.02 to increase the charges for water used. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second move by way and seconded by Lold. You guys have any questions? >> Mayor, I'd just ask Ryan to um kind of go back in time and just remind over the last three years kind of what our approach has been and what the rate increases have been. >> Sure. Uh well, as you all know and and um coincidentally, we'll be talking about some of these water projects later this evening. Uh but the the the city has uh and the city council has approved a facility plan uh in 2025. And that plan uh a water and wastewater plan actually that plan helps provide framework for the necessary improvements needed uh to keep up with our growth. Uh so um we uh what you're seeing tonight uh is a 5% rate increase in water and uh a proposed 5% increase in water uh 6% in sewer. And really uh these increases will help us uh be able to pay for the upcoming projects. And uh to give you folks know this, but for the benefit of the community, as an example, the the water improvements over the next four or five years are going to uh cost approximately $18 million. The wastewater is a is a big one. Um and we're looking at a $55 million uh expense there uh to keep that uh facility. um uh you know within regulation and uh having the capacity to to serve the community. So uh councelor Smith to your question you know over the last few years last year we did start a rate increase uh but before that we went uh I think five and six years respectively in each utility without any increases. Uh but continuing to monitor these funds. We look at these funds uh regularly to make sure expenses and revenues are but you see the reports monthly. um we take much deeper dives into those uh uh on a on a routine basis. And in fact, I asked uh Tiana to stick around in case uh folks wanted to visit with her about this because she also is very much involved as we put these models together, look at what the debt amortization schedules are. And as I tried to highlight in my memo, it's not just about the the the amortization schedule. We're looking at in each of these utilities number of accounts consumption of gallons uh of course trying to uh uh predict expenses and revenues uh over the course of the next 20 years in this case and that can be um very complicated. Uh and then lastly and and very importantly is we also have debt service coverage that we have to maintain uh in order to qualify for the SRF loan uh which is how we'll pay for these projects. And I I won't go into detail on that. That's in your packet if you want more on that. But uh it's uh my point and in in in this uh e explanation is there's a lot that goes into this uh and and we've we've tried to look at it uh from every angle to to provide you the most reasonable uh increase possible and that's what you're seeing tonight. And mayor, I would just say, you know, back a few years ago, first coming on council, that was a topic that I heard the most from the community was rate increases for water. Greg and his team have done a phenomenal job uh in um curbing those, doing what they can, doing more with the same with no rate increases over the last few years. Um Greg, we really appreciate the work. I know that's made it more difficult at times. Um but they're um you know they they've worked extremely hard and now uh seeing the need for the growth being able to keep up with the growth. I just want folks to to understand and see that history that we have had many years without rate increases and now it's it's time for our growing community to u uh to work towards expansion. So thank you. >> Welcome. Any other questions? I'll just comment uh two things that uh for those in the audience uh a water and wastewater um funding. These are enterprise funds. These are projects. These are parts of our city that are not getting funding from general obligation funds. They only get uh funding through the rates and the uh the water that's sold or uh the water that is uh treated. So these funds act a little bit differently than any other city fund that we have uh on there. And Ryan, for the uh for the community's benefit, could you just say what an SRF what the SRF is and why how that's helpful in this case? >> Sure. Uh good point. Sometimes we use acronyms like everyone knows what they mean. Uh that's that's the state revolving fund. It's a loan fund specifically uh for water, wastewater, and storm water projects. And uh North Liberty's been using this fund uh for many, many years. and it provides a reduced interest rate. I think their current rates two and 3/4 perhaps somewhere in there uh and um without having to go through a sale process. So, it's a it's a great program uh and one that most communities will use. The one caveat with that is which I what I mentioned earlier is you have to have debt service coverage of 110% and so that factors into our rate calculations as well. Thank you. All right. Uh, could I have a motion for consideration of Mayor? >> There is a there is a motion on >> Sorry, I got it on here. I missed that. Uh, could I have a roll call, please? >> For >> I. >> Won, >> I. >> Lold, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> Motion carries 40. Item 12 uh, is our sewer utility rate increase. And this is I'll open this a public hearing regarding the proposed sewer utility rate increases. Anyone wishing to comment on this? Seeing no one, I will close the public hearing and move on to item B, which is first consideration of ordinance number 2026-09. This is an ordinance amending chapter 99.02 entitled rate of the municipal code of North Liberty by adopting a new section 99.02 to increase the charges for sanitary services. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. Second move by Smith, seconded by Forney. Any questions on that? >> I will make you repeat that. Uh Tiana, how' Ryan do with his explanation of uh things since you stuck around here for us? >> I think it was perfect. >> Awesome. Anything anything that you'd like to add? >> Um no. I I think while only that we do do this regularly and um we'll look for opportunities to um kind of moderate [clears throat] rates as we can as we get closer to those projects. But you know, as as um Ryan [clears throat] mentioned, we do have coverage considerations that we need to consider, cash considerations. Um, and so we will monitor those regularly to make sure that as we we approach that project that you're in a in a good fiscal position to be able to to not have to raise rates extraordinarily um all of the sudden. And so I appreciate the city's um being proactive in that and managing that. I've seen much worse in other places. So, um, consider yourselves fortunate to have such good planning and, um, I'll continue to to help as much as I can to to make sure that we, um, keep doing more of the same and being moderate in our increases and expectations. >> Awesome. Thank you, Tracy. Could I have roll call then, please? >> Smith, >> I. >> For >> I, >> I, >> I. Motion carries 40. I'll move on to item 13, which is the water supply and treatment improvements divisions two and three. And we're going to start with uh staff presentation. >> Thank you, mayor. I'll I will start and then I'm going to ask John Gaty, who is uh with us virtually um to make a few comments and I believe he has some slides and with any luck we'll be able to have the slides in front of you and on these uh two screens. Uh John is um with Strand uh and Associates. our our uh uh engineering firm on this project. And then I've asked um uh u grant to to just uh provide a just remind folks what these resolutions are are intended for this evening. So, uh, just to get us started here and I you've we've already talked about the facility plans and the fact that, um, North Liberty is very unique for a city in Iowa and that we are growing. Uh, many cities, uh, don't have to worry about facility plans because, uh, their growth is stale and they just have to maintain, you know, what they have. Uh in the last 20 years, we've I think approved three different facility plans and each plan acknowledges that future uh future improvements are necessary if we want to keep up uh with the uh the growth of the community. Uh so in this case um uh the project that we're talking about uh the the the improvement project includes uh the addition of wells trans transmission lines and uh uh increasing the capacity uh at the water plant. So that's why you're seeing this specific area we're talking about divisions two through three. Later, we have a bid opening or a bid project for division one. So, divisions one through four are what I talked referred to earlier as the $18 million over the next few years. >> [clears throat] >> So, uh, John's going to get into some of the details on why, uh, wells need to be located in in certain areas and he'll, I believe, has a map to show you. But in general, you know, the city gets its water from two different aquifers, the Jordan aquifer and the Saluran aquifer. And most of our water right now comes from the Jordan aquifer. Although there's uh the state has now put significant limitations on how much water cities or or other organizations can get from that Jordan simply because they're concerned about the long-term sustainability of that aquifer. So those of us who rely on aquafer water uh are going to be looking at the saluran and the slur aquifer. And again I know uh some of you up here and probably all of you up here know this but I think it bears repeating. you know, Jordan aquifer, we can get, and Greg, you can correct me uh at some point if I'm totally off here, but anywhere from 1500 to upwards on a good day 2,000 gallons of water per minute. With a salaran, you know, we're hoping to get anywhere from 3 to 500 gallons a minute with a good salarian. We have curian aquifers right now that are only producing uh 40 to 50 uh gallons a minute and those are not very efficient and frankly someday they'll go away but right now we need them as a uh to to sustain our to sustain and to um um provide water uh to our community. So, as we look to locate and site these wells, we want to make sure that where we do it is productive. We don't want to invest, you know, a million dollars or a million and a half uh uh to install a well only to get 50 gallons a minute. So, what John is going to talk about, I believe, and uh here in a minute, is a study that was done in 2016 that talked about where um where uh the aquifer is strong, the slur aquifer is strong, and why uh um why and that will help you better understand why we're suggesting this location uh for uh the core, one of the curian wells. So, I think with that, I just want to check my notes and make sure I have everything I've mentioned everything here. And then I think I will turn it over uh to John. Uh looks like he's got his presentation up, Tim. I don't know if you can. There we go. Thank you. Uh take it away, John. >> Thanks, Ryan. Thanks, Mayor and Council. Um can you guys hear me? Okay, >> hear you. Great, John. Thank you. All right. So, again, I'm I'm one of the project managers with Strand, and we've been helping the city for years with your um helping you find water and building your your water treatment plant. And so, this figure is representing where your water treatment plant is. And you can see the wells that we have around the proximity of the treatment plant. And Brian mentioned the well number three and well number four that's hooked to the Silaran aquifer are we're not hardly getting water from those anymore. you know, less than 50 gallons per minute. Um, so as your town continues to grow, we have this continued demand to provide water to these folks. >> John, sorry, John, could you do one of two things? Could you make that map a little bit bigger for us to to see them on our screens, maybe just one at a time? [snorts] >> Yeah, thank you. There we go. Thank you. >> Very good. Thanks. I appreciate that. So again, this is this is well three and this is well four. the water treatment plant. So, these where your wells are now. And this this is well number seven. It's an aquafer storage reservoir. We actually store our water um there. Um but we're we're converting that. That's a Jordan well. And as part of this project, we're going to convert that and make it into a raw water system where we pump it back up to the treatment plant and treat it um there to help us provide us more water capacity. So in 2017, um [clears throat] we completed a a study and tried to determine how to provide more wells uh for for the city. And there's a lot of factors we had to put into that. We um hired some specialists to to analyze that. And really what came of that study is that we wanted to grow our well fields to the north and northwest. And um we base this on a um you know with your population projections and your historical water usage for over the next 10 years. So this plan you know is going to implicate implemented over a 10-year period. And the first part of that is to locate two new wells. We're calling them wells number 10 and 11. Um, and then this is showing wells 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 in the in the northwest quadrant here outside of your city limits. And from each one of those wells, we have to extend a raw water line, and we got to bring it all the way back to the water treatment plant. Um when we're when we look at how to space these wells, we need to space them um apart from each other so they don't interfere with the capacity that we can draw from each one of those. And we also have to take in consideration all the existing wells or some private wells that are located out in this area. So they had to be spaced accordingly um for that. Uh well number 10 is located right off of Kansas where your existing water tower is located. So this will be a curian well and hopefully like Ryan said we'll be getting up to 300 gallons per minute um out of this well number 10. The next well um is located on just just to the north of Deerfield Park right off of Antler Drive. This is well number 11. Um, this would require us to um acquire some a property adjacent to the parkland there. We've got to meet certain spacing requirements per the DNR requirements. We want to control like 200 ft around this wellhead. That's a that's a code requirement so folks aren't um applying chemicals or doing land applications um on the property and we can control that. We we attempted to put this well as close as we could to our property. Then as you can see we had to extend or planning to extend Antler Drive so we can have a driveway for us to um access our proposed well site. Also, as part of this um project, because we talked about the wells, I'll start again um up here by by Deerfield. Um I wanted to go over just quickly the alignment that we had to extend a raw water line from each one of these wall sites. So again, this is Deerfield um Deerfield Park. This blue line represents a a 6-in raw water line that we would extend um around this location in agricultural properties. And then we would extend it down Alexander Way all the way to West Penn. [clears throat and cough] And from West Penn um we would extend it south to this junction location here. And then we have well number 10 over here which is the the tower site and um proposing to extend it down our public rideway here through agricultural property east in this direction around the church property up to Jones Boulevard and then extending it to Zeller. And at Zeer, that's where we have um our existing Jordan well, well number nine. And we also have well number um eight here. Another cileran well here. And we already have our 12-in raw water m water water line that goes to the plant. So the key is to get all that infrastructure to this location right here um to get to the water treatment plant so this water can be treated for your community. >> [clears throat] >> That's a a brief summary, a project overview of why we why we need these wells and um the infrastructure associated with that. We anticipate that all of this work will be completed by um by the end of 2028. And as Ryan mentioned, it's it's just over $18 million to do this work. Okay. Um, and I'll just want to speak a little bit about the resolution you have in front of you, folks. So, um, after our staff presentation, there'll be, uh, time for a public hearing, and I know that we have several of the land owners here that are that are going to want to speak. Um, and I've spoken with all of them before this. Uh, the resolution that you have here, uh, coming up, uh, is necessary in order for because the all the land you see there that Mr. Gaty is has highlighted is is agricultural land. It's been it's uh at least 10 acres and it's been in agricultural use for two out of the last 5 years. Uh it's considered agricultural land and we have to follow special uh procedures in order to put the eminent domain tool in our toolbox. That doesn't mean we have to use eminent domain, but in order to make that available to the city to use as a tool. Uh we we have to have uh send out uh notices uh and publish notices in the paper and and we have a public hearing tonight. All of that all all of this meeting for for that is to make sure that we're checking all those requirements to make sure that everyone who is affected by this directly has an opportunity to come here and listen to us talk about it and then share their opinion about it. and then the council can make a decision uh on whether or not to authorize the acqu the acquisition of the land necessary by eminent domain if it is necessary to do so. Um and I'll leave it at that for right now. I can I'll be happy to talk more as we go further along and I can answer questions you [clears throat] might have as well. Just to clarify for tonight though, Grant, we're uh creating and authorizing a tool that might be used at some point in time in the future, and we're not doing anything beyond that this evening. >> That's correct. Um if uh in in order to do this, this will allow us to uh finish up some appraisal work that's already probably gotten started uh in anticipation of of uh of being able to do this. we have an idea of what a fair market value is uh for to to offer people for for the the property interests that are necessary and and to start a dialogue. There are a slew of statutory protections and requirements in place so to from the decision to maybe go forward with uh acquiring property um to ultimately maybe having a hearing on that through the county can be six months long. Um there is a need here for this project. Uh the DNR requires us to have all of the the property in hand um all the easements uh that we might need all the all the land for the well before they can cons before they can u move forward uh with the considering of whether this is a good project to to allow us to go forward with. So we have to have everything in hand first. And so that's why we've started this this process earlier than we might otherwise. Normally, we might have, you know, months and months of casual conversations with property owners, but time is of the essence here in order to to be able to preserve a potential bid date uh and letting date of next year. And so that that's why we're a little more um uh quicker on the on this particular draw than than we have been in in years past. >> Okay. Thank you. Any questions for staff? I had a question um just a little bit on that. So what um John presented was what we suspect would be the best plan to go forward. >> Yeah. So Strand has has has identifi they they've looked at all the possible permutations and this is this is the the plan that that the engineer we've hired recommends us to to to uh to use. Um I don't I often joke that I got a liberal arts degree, right? So why the hell do I know about but uh this is that path at these locations for the for the reasons that Ryan mentioned for the reasons that that John mentioned are are the uh the recommended site and then the resolution in front of you says this is we're calling this the preliminary site for this. So let's go ahead and get appraisals on it and so on uh and and and get the ball rolling. let us let us begin be able to have conversations. I can't negotiate with folks unless until this gets authorized because this is a land. Um I I don't I don't I'm not authorized to do that. >> And and so this resolution, it doesn't have us digging ground. It just has us surveying and making sure that this is uh I mean >> to acquire this land, >> right? And I don't Yeah. So there's a whole big paragraph long blurb of all the stuff that this that this does, but ultimately it says uh yes, you will be able to use uh we authorize that that the use of eminent domain if necessary. Then the next step is an appraisal. Uh and once each of these property interests are are are appraised and there's a value, I come back to the council and say here's what the appraiser says. It says this this property is $500 million an acre and this one is $600 million an acre. I am just kidding. Um but uh but the idea and then the council will say that number is completely reasonable. Uh and and so we uh we are going to establish a resolution establishing um what we think is a a fair market value and then I then we're off to the races. and I can turn out an offer at least that much to each of the property owners and we that that's begins this whole state lawmandated negotiation process and um 95 times out of a 100 we uh the people we're dealing with are are are North Liberty residents. They're our neighbors. These are reasonable folks and and we we can almost always um come to a summer arrangement that is mutually agreeable. I don't know if we're always everyone's super happy, but we can we can agree to agree if if ultimately that we can't uh find any agreement uh for me to come back and say, "Hey, sign off on this council. We we made an we made a deal. Didn't didn't we do a good job?" Then I can file paperwork with the district court saying, "Hey, we couldn't make a deal and and these are the projects. This is what we need." At that point, then then the district court appoints compensation commissioners. They hold a hearing. They come out and look at everything and they come up with a number if we can't agree with one between ourselves. At that point, I still come back to the council and say, "This is the number that the compensation commission said." Uh, and you can say, "Nah, it's too much. We'll we'll figure out something else or we think that's fair." Uh, but there there are at least three more visits uh here and and at least one per property, right? I maybe maybe everyone gets we all fall into agreement next week, but likely the people, you know, these are also very sophisticated folks. Uh this Duster Garden Farms owns a significant amount of uh of land uh north of town. Uh Mr. Harold Cameron owns a significant amount of land in town and and they are uh they know what their land's worth and and they want to make sure that they're treated fairly. They have attorneys representing them to make sure their interests are protected. So, there's a process that goes forward with that. Um, and this is just this is part of that. I realize that I've been hearing myself speak for a very long time now and I'm going to stop now. >> Any other questions? >> I got a So, Grant, so if you had to do eminent domain, does the council have to authorize that specific >> this this resolution will authorize us to go forward with that if we can't make any sort of agreements if I don't have anything else to come. but it doesn't authorize the actual taking until we we come back and write a check for it. Okay. >> Um so it is it this will get that ball potentially rolling all the way up to including having a hearing uh with the compensation commission, >> but you can still walk away at that point. You don't you don't have to to seal that deal until you're until you the count this body determines that they want to write a check to purchase it for whatever the number was uh that the that the compensation commission came up with. Is that >> y >> responsive? >> Yep. So there'll be several uh uh uh meetings where we can decide that maybe we want to not >> at least two for every property. One where we establish the the the fair market value for every property. that that's that's a necessary and and assuming and then either that we've made a deal uh or that we haven't made a deal and that we uh and we needed to go through the compensation commission and and so at least two for every property maybe maybe one extra. >> Okay. >> How many pieces of property? How many owners are we talking? >> I mean there's 18 pages in your packet. The the property owners are the the Duster Garden Farms Limited Partnership which is Dr. uh Nile and Dr. Lois Duster here in the audience with us. Uh we go we're going through uh Maj1 Properties. Uh that's uh Mr. Jerardine. That's along Alexander Way. We are going to go under uh the Whirlpool driveway, but we are going to stay within the rideway. Uh and so we're going to just kind of go right under their their their driveway and and we won't need anything from them. We're going to stay on city property for that because it's only uh 25 ft wide there or so. um as it as it extends further south. Thank you, John, for driving. Uh will bore under Penn Street. Uh the blue line there then that all the way down there uh is is Mr. Hill Cameron's property. Uh and for for the northern parcel there along the driveway east and west from West Park Street is that I I think it's Pence. Uh and then to the east uh the the eastern most parcel there belongs to Mr. Cory Hodaf of CJ's Construction Company. Uh, and so I he's not here tonight. The other propert and Jerine and is not here tonight, but the other property owners are. And I have I have a an inkling they'll want to speak in a minute. >> Brent, how you doing there? Anything stewing? >> Good. I I I understand the uh the rideway issues mainly on the Cameron property um being line um that can be cropped over over time. Uh the main parcel of the is it 3 acres to the north of the park? Is that what the theor fee acquisition is? Uh is right at 2 [snorts] something acres. I >> Yeah. under three. More than two and a half, less than three. >> Yeah. And that's that's the minimum requirement, uh, John, for for us to control for chemical issues. Correct. That's the minimal square that we can get away with. >> It would be a circle, but it's really hard to draw a circle. Sure. Right. Um, >> okay. >> And depending on I I don't want to can Yeah. Never. Yes. I'll just leave it at that. Um >> so the the the thing that I the thing I struggled with here was timing. though if if we have put ourselves in a position where timing is of the essence and the eminent domain hammer uh needs to be approved um earlier in the process than maybe we have in the past that's um you know if if if I am a property owner I would appreciate the communication upfront which we have done I would appreci negotiate the the ability to negotiate uh to come to an agreement. Then if the agreement is not there looking towards you know if if this council deems uh necessary for imminent domain putting imminent domain up forward this early in the process is just what I'm looking for that clarification uh for and it's timing but timing timing for and why I guess >> sure um so we were informed by Strand of the DNR requirement to have all the easements in hand before they could move forward with it. We were informed of that I think in March uh late March. >> Okay. >> Um I I offered uh our friends some colorful epithets. Um uh saying that's much faster than we ordinarily would. Uh but you know, here's here's the bare minimum time frame to do this under the law. Um you know, making it something being legal doesn't make it a good idea, right? And that's and so uh I immediately reached out as to [clears throat] everybody and said, "Hey, we we got a project looks very likely uh that it's going to be your your your property is going to be affected by this. Let's let's start a dialogue." Um and uh met with all varying responses. Right. >> So we've met we've met with we've communicated with, but we are unable to negotiate at this point. Correct. Uh yeah, because I wouldn't have the foggiest idea what to offer moneywise, right? >> Okay. >> Um I the last thing we want to do is offer offer something that's too offering something too low is all is would be insulting, you know, and we and we don't want to take advantage of people. We also don't want to we have an obligation not to waste taxpayer money and spend too much. >> Correct. The number that the appraiser is supposed to come up with is imagine they wanted to sell and we wanted to buy. An armslength transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller. That's the imaginary number they come up with, right? And and so we don't trust ourselves to do that. We have the we have the appraiser do that and they look they use comparable sales to figure out what other sales of similar property look like. >> I I have a a few comments that I've been gathering here. First, thank you Grant for the overview. very helpful and I think for the public as well on on what the process is, right? This is an if necessary, but this gives us at least in a position to have that conversation that you want to have on a fair market value. So, thank you for that. Um, I have some other comments as well, but my one question for for you, John, um, correct me if I'm wrong. I I believe I heard you said it was 2016 study, 2017, somewhere in that time frame. Is that correct? Yes, >> that's correct. It's 20 2017 study. >> 2017 study. So would I also be correct in assuming that really the only thing has changed from a geographic there's not been really any significant change from a geographic standpoint really the only thing that has changed is the demand. Is that correct? >> Uh the that the demand continues to grow. Correct. And so as as part of the 2017 I'm sure the study projected where you'd be at be at today and beyond that for the next 10 years. >> That's that's exactly where I was getting to. Does this plan, the recommendation take into account our projected growth over the next 10, 20 years? What I want to avoid is having this conversation 3 or 5 years from now or, you know, down the road again. Are we thinking long-term with this recommendation or is it in reaction to the 2016 study? >> No. The stud, just to be clear, the 2016 study talked about >> well locations, right? where the best location >> that's not going to change. >> Okay. >> The 2025 master plan, facility master plan talks about when to start >> when >> constructing these things. And so in that master plan, we talk about >> uh and I don't have it in front of me, but sometime in early 2030s needing five more curan wells. >> Yeah, that's what I was getting to. So we're we are going to have this conversation again at some point. >> Okay. >> Uh >> it's just where the next wells go after that. Yeah. Okay. But it's it's a little early to do that because obviously things in that time period could change. Growth could slow way down. Growth could speed way up. Speed way up. >> I just wanted to make sure that we're looking today and tomorrow as much as we could. >> Absolutely. And I just reiterate the fact that, you know, [clears throat] we've we we put these MA master plans together for a reason. Yeah. And um we were very happy with the quality of the plan and uh for for this for these purposes to have these discussions. >> 100%. That's what I was getting to is that we've got some plans in place. We've done the projections. We've run out the growth. We've run out different things like that. So, it it's not just a snapshot on uh this particular um well set. It's it's a comprehensive view of everything. >> Yes. >> Thank you. I'm um [clears throat] I think if I was listening to Brent correctly, so the word eminent domain is like a scary word for everybody, you know, cuz you're you're taking, right? So, is there a reason to vote on eminent domain now when we don't even have the value and everybody might come together? >> You can't get an appraisal yet uh >> without eminent domain. But this is this is the process for doing that. So chap everything, like I said earlier, it's it's spelled out. It's this is um you could have an intern do this. It's paint by number. It I'm sorry. I I know you guys think I'm great at this, but this is a very very basic process because every community has has to have this available to it because otherwise you you all you need is um some unreasonable person to say no and then your project doesn't work, right? Uh and so you you you you paint by number. you you do you follow the steps in the order prescribed by H oil and and then and that's it. So where we're at right now is I have um arranged for an appraiser a primary appraiser and then we have a secondary appraiser lined up to review their work to make sure it's right. And that's all because and that those are because the DNR is involved here. They use the same rules that the Iowa DOT uses which is the same rules as federal uh use. So there's there's a whole bunch of checks in place here and um there's not a lot of leeway in in this process to to to Council Smith's point earlier. If we're just having a conversation beforehand, right? And we can I well, you know, your neighbor sold for $X,000 an acre a couple years ago. What do you say does, you know, we can negotiate on vibes all day long uh up until we get to this point, but we've sent the notice saying, you know, we we have uh we might need to use this tool. Here's your chance to come talk to us about it. And and this is the point where it that conversation switches to this is under threat of eminent domain. Even if we don't actually do that then that sounds terrible but actually that offers tax benefits. Uh there are there are certain things if you want to have a like kind transfer land or whatever when you when you buy land you can you can defer your tax. I I should not talk about taxes but there are there are having this this resolution passed um triggers some potential safeguards and benefits for for people as well. I'm not going to pretend that this is something you should celebrate. I'm just saying that there are other tools that be that become available because this tool is in the toolbox um that that offers uh other other um they get their um attorney's fees paid. If they have an attorney and they and they the if an award is ultimately made that is 10% higher than our highest offer for example then then we then we pay for their attorney's fees. Uh they get the p the their um an appraiser of their choice. They can get their own appraisal made. we pay for that as well there. We can't pay for that stuff unless uh unless we're exploring this possibility. So, um but >> it's not about implementing right now, but to have that later as a possibility should we need it. >> Yeah. To your to your point, um the the u it it's scary, but the other word for it is due process, right? This is it gets everybody the the chance to be heard. That's why we have the public hearing. This is why we have and we do everything in front of God and everybody uh and we have multiple resolutions and so on to make sure that we're not there's no sweetheart deals. Um that everything is that we're treating the taxpayers fairly and the pe and the property owners fairly. And so that um I hope that that can probably help you feel a little bit better about it. Um but I I don't want to be polyianish about it either. I know that it's these are people's you know this is their their land, their their homes. Uh and this is very personal to folks. Um and so I've had over the years a number of charged conversations with folks uh and I hold absolutely none of them against those folks, right? We would all feel the same way. Um this is um uh one of even though the process itself is is very straightforward, um the the work is hard. This this part of the job is is one of the harder things that I do. Um and because it's serious >> and I and I appreciate that the council is is taking it seriously as well. And thank you, Grant. >> Uh, John, is that picture How old is that picture >> with the map on it? >> The the overview. >> Yeah. Um, >> is that original when we did study or >> um this map that I'm showing here, the overview, it's it's probably from 2024. >> Okay. >> The this aerial is um is probably much older. Is that right? >> Yep. If we could get that just updated some point. It was just a little tricky to figure out where we were sometimes if there's a way to do that. >> Oh, well, this I think this actually came from that 2016 state, >> right? So, if we could >> Yeah. >> just draw it on the current city. >> Sure. >> Yep. >> I think it'll make things a little easier to understand because there's a lot of stuff that's filled in there now and you kind of get a better idea of why things are where they need to be. [clears throat] >> All right. Can we move on? Sound good? All right. Uh, item B is public hearing regarding the water supply and treatment modifications improvement project. So, anyone wishing to provide some comments, please come up and let us know who you are and what your questions are. >> Good evening. I'm Lisa Green Douglas. I live on the property to the west of the property in question. Um, but outside of the 500 ft notification, I checked that today. I was like 750 ft. Um, I have a few questions. I'm sorry, Lisa. Could you Which property? Just for clarification. >> The property that is being looked at for the placement of this plant, the Desters property. >> Okay. Thank you. >> Um, and there are a few things that are keeping me awake at night, not even about this. So, I want to back up to that study that was referenced from 2016. Um, and it said it was on the Saloran aquifer. Last year the county did a study and and heard back the report of the soloran aquifer study. So there's more recent information and um and then we combined that with some information from hydrarology that we heard from in May in March of this year. And um there here's what keeps me awake at night and worries me. Water does not care about jurisdictional boundaries. So um the draw down currently on this um on the saloran aquifer in the Iowa City area is 13 m in a 20-year span. So you know it's we're looking at a finite resource at this point. Um because the recharge is really really really slow. Like you know our our descendants many generations out will be talking about this but we won't know anything about it. That's what we're leaving them. There won't be any water there to use. And then you combine that with um somebody talked about the change like there hasn't been any geological change and that's certainly true. The demand change has definitely um increased, but what has also changed and increased are our drought conditions. And so that slows down the recharge on an aquifer as well. So all of those things and that information um I I think we probably provided that to the city of North Liberty. um everybody that draws from the salarian aer and I mean everybody in terms of like municipalities, counties, whatever needs to get together and like look at that stopping point of when we're going to draw more. Um now I here's my question and just like head nod or something. Um, are we talking about drawing more from this aquifer or are we talking about just treating what's already generated? Like is it a treatment plant? Is it a or is it being just you using that force? Because I've been doing a lot of learning and using that force that comes from there that you don't get at a place closer to the treatment plant. So, are we just using that force or are we actually drawing up from there? >> We're drawing out of the aquafer. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Sending to the water. >> Yeah. So, [snorts] so it's kind of a combination then both. Okay. So, those are things that I just like there's more information out there than maybe or more recent information that could be helpful. Um, [clears throat] and I think that we need to consider everything that we have. I get that, you know, you have to do things in order. Sometimes you got a project going and you're like, what comes first, the chicken or the egg? And you have to put certain things in place before you can move forward. Um, but if you're not utilizing everything that's available in terms of information, then um, meeting those deadlines ends up not really mattering. Also, just um the the um Ariels that were there were from Did you say they were from 2016? Cuz there were aerials done last week. I checked them this morning. Um so there's some new areas. Um it just kind of like you said, there's some stuff that's been filled in there. Yeah, the the are aerials we're using for our current stuff is they're the new ones, but >> the ones from last just last week >> we were pulling something out of a 2016 study. >> Gotcha. Okay. Yeah, cuz um those are constantly changing at least, you know, in terms of all the building that we have going on around here. Um, I don't know if I mean I know that your obligation for informing property owners is one thing, but I would just like to ask for a friendly um being added to the list of um nearby property owners if that's possibility. I don't know that there's any legal thing against that. um you know so that I could do my homework and study and learn about this. Uh but yeah, I just wanted you all to know that there is newer information about how quickly that aquifer is going down and and how dire the situation is. So that concludes my remarks. >> Thanks, Lisa. I'm Nile Dustiker. That's my wife Lois. We are general partners of Dust Diker Garden Farms, which is a family farm uh that extends from 240th Street uh in a Z over to Swan Lake Road. And we have some other farmland elsewhere. And [clears throat] we first learned about this project in a letter uh from uh Grant Lintz uh in April uh and I mentioned some of this so I'm not going to go through all of this because I think I sent you an email but basically it was well we're looking at some different sites for a well and we need to have a well to improve the water supply for North Liberty. Can we look at your property and uh assess it? and we said emphatically, "No, do not trespass. We are not part of North Liberty and we do not permit you to trespass." Now, we've allowed North Liberty to do a snow fence in the past and we try to be good stewards of the land. We have a land buffer so that uh along the fence line with Deerfield and Deerfield Park so that we minimize any risk of herbicide spread and things of this sort. Uh we also want to maintain the the ability of that land to be developed at some point in the future, but we have no plans for that right now. Well, heard nothing. Uh uh I got a note I discussed with uh your attorney and and uh he uh assured me that he would respect that. Then all of a sudden we hear this letter uh from May 6th which we felt was threatening because it mentions well we're going to use your property and we are going to requ uh acquire your property and we will go through the rules of eminent domain. Well as you've mentioned that's kind of a scary concept. Um I ask four questions. one, how did you determine that our site is the preferred site? Did you trespass? Did you do any testing? And the answer to that is no. Number two, have you considered easements? No easements were mentioned. Well, as I've learned more about the project, yes, indeed, uh, easements can be used for underground lines, and frankly, I don't have a problem with that because we can continue to use the land for agricultural purposes uh, and potentially development if we want to do that. I then asked an interesting question in this letter. I said, well, now what is the scope of this project? is this uh going to involve acquiring more land? And I was told, well, no, no, this is a very limited project. Well, that's not true. And I found your 2024 water uh facility plan. I learned just tonight that that was based on a study of 2016. So, apparently it took 8 years to get there. But the the water uh facility plan which uh you've seen a couple pictures from uh that plan uh has very definite uh direction uh and phases uh for obtaining more water. Now wells 10 and 11 on that facility plan were within the city limits uh of North Liberty. And uh then the other wells for the further of that plan are out in Madison Township. I don't know that Madison Township knows about that. That that's all rural land. But the thing that concerned me is that this well and uh acquiring this land, taking this land um is going to cost the city. It's going to cost the taxpayers. It's going to cost you folks some money. Uh there is property which is where in the plan on 24 on your map, well number 11 was very close to Deerfield Park or maybe in Deerfield Park. The west half of Deerfield Park doesn't have anything in it. Sometimes it's not even mowed. Uh the well, if the well is the black thing on this diagram, uh Deerfield Park is right across the fence line and it would certainly potentially save the city uh the cost of acquiring 5 acres of land. Uh and there's 200 ft in a circle anywhere in that western half of that park. Now, I'm not an engineer. I'm not telling you what to do or where to do it, but if you are following the plan as was written in 24 and you adopted it in April of 25, wells 10 and 11 were within the city limits of North Liberty. The thing that's new about this is you are now deciding that the city is going to go out and take somebody else's land. Now granted, I would presume you'll pay pay an appropriate amount for it and uh and we're not against negotiating with the city. It's just we don't want our land in the city. We don't want to sell our land. If you take the chunk that you've got shown up here, it also impairs us farming a smaller chunk uh between the uh east half of that property there and the fence line. So, you're going to have to do something. Uh you're going to have to reimburse for that, which is going to cost you more money. Um this process uh needs to be carefully looked at and again uh as uh su as supervisor Lisa says um you know this aquifer is going down uh is a 2016 study adequate to tell you what you need? uh and the study that you uh approved in 25 this water project study um you're not necessarily following that. I mean you've got these other things listed but you're not following that study. So my comments to you is first of all we're opposed to having the city of North Liberty acquies and grab our land. um you know, we're willing to look at different things, but if it has to be eminent domain, it may have to be eminent domain. Okay. Um, we're not opposed to Eastman's and uh, we have legal counsel and legal counsel points out it's a lot easier within city limits to use eminent domain than it is out in agricultural land and outside of city limits. Now, I'm not a legal person, so I don't know the other answers to that, but that's a fact. I believe [clears throat] uh if you do proceed looking at this, I would urge you to table the motion and have your engineer take a good look at whether or not you couldn't place the well in uh the Deerfield Park uh because you've already got a road there. You've got city property. Uh the wellhead got a picture here. you know, this is this is a wellhead. I mean, that's not much of a deterrent. It's also interesting. I think Mr. Lince probably provided this. This may be AI generated, but that wellhead is in the undeveloped part of Deerfield Park because you can see the uh you can see the uh kids uh playground area, etc. So, so this is not agricultural land. This was taken or provided as part of uh of Deerfield Park. So, I would urge you to either table this motion or have some further information as to why all of a sudden the city's going to start uh taking land that's outside of the city limits. And yes, this involves us today, but wells, five, the next five wells are going to involve a lot of people in Madison Township uh in the not too dear near future. Uh and and is that the proper way to provide the water that you need? Uh it's costly to run your line from our from this potential well down to the to the city treatment plant. um is there a closer location? Uh there's a lot of different options and a lot of questions that that I find uh unacceptable for us and again we are willing to work with the city but this was this was done very quickly. Uh it seems threatening to us and um you need to understand that that that we will do what we need to do. Thank you. >> Thank you Mr. Dust Decker, I wanted to address a couple of things that uh that were here. Lisa, I share your concern about all of the aquifers across the Midwest um and what that looks like for generations to come. Um what we're doing here tonight is is following mandates um that we we follow from the state of Iowa um federally and and uh I think that ties in, Mr. dust your to your question about the urgency uh that this looks like it was thrown at you because the DNR is uh asking for things to be done in advance. So uh and as Grant um indicated um earlier uh this is not the pace in which he prefers to go or that we prefer to go. Um it is nonetheless the pace that we're required to go at um to to make this happen. Um I asked this question John I had a couple of questions if you wouldn't mind. Um I I I know the answers to them already, but I want it for the public um help. What would be the difference? And and why did we not choose for uh this this well to go into Deerfield? Why does it make why was that not a good idea? >> Actually, I I [clears throat] think I can speak to that perhaps. >> Uh John, certainly chime in if if you'd like, but you know, the thought here is this is this is an active park. Uh and uh if we were to locate a a well here, of course, we'd have to um uh make sure and and just like we're doing up here, meet the 200t radius of all the homes around it. So, uh we looked at a a a drawing and we could certainly show get something to this group to show you what it would look like, but it would take up a fair amount of usable space in an active neighborhood park. uh and I imagine uh we would have uh uh some concerns with residents about that as well. So the idea here is to uh [clears throat] prioritize uh the park uh the uh and uh make sure we continue to have that uh for our residents. >> Yeah, thank you. And I think that was uh what I [clears throat] was what I thought as well, but I needed to understand it cuz if we move this into Deerfield even on the northern side right there, um while we might maintain some distance east west, we've got a we we don't have 200 ft down there to the south uh for that. And we also don't control anything to the north of it. So, anything that could be developed in the future is going to need to be outside of those 200 feet on there. Um I don't know if you want to address the next question that I had but specifically when it comes to the 2025 study um that that question was raised um John can you tell us you know what's the what's the difference between a study and an agreement um and then getting into the details and and doing doing that work. What's what sort of changes naturally happen and uh why did they change a little bit in this way? Sure. Um again the the 201617 study that was done was primarily trying to find um the best well spacing um for for the Silian aquifer so that we weren't affecting [snorts] um the wells associated with that. So and these are general locations that are shown as part of this study. Um, when this was done, it wasn't it wasn't, you know, it's got to be here. It's plus or minus, you know, 500,000 ft is what I would assume. Um, we could make work for each one of these one each one of these wells. >> It sounds good. I misunderstood uh the concern was about the study from 2025 and maybe Mr. Duster if you could confirm for me was are you questioning the location and what that study that we just did last year in that plan? If you can. Yeah, you please do >> your map showed uh the map I is from your study that you approved April the 25. It's the 2024 uh water study. >> Okay. >> Uh and that map showed uh number 10 and number 11 within the city limits. And number 11 specifically was very close to Deerfield Park or wherever it was somewhere in Deerfield. And uh I I'm not saying that that's the best location for your well. I'm just saying that that's what the study showed at that time. And presumably if uh you know if this was the done from 2016, Deerfield wasn't fully developed by >> Yeah. No, I think those are that's an important distinction right there. what John addressed was the 2016 study was just a general concept. But what I'm trying to drill down um John, are there any specific um how much different is the study that we approved just last year versus the location of this well? >> Good question. Um I again I think it was as part of the 2024 study. This is that same map that that I was showing you and we're showing number well number 11 in the general location. >> Okay. So we don't showing >> we don't have the well identified in an exact location in >> Yeah. It's just just a big blob. Yep. >> Yeah. Okay. And this might be this might be creating the confusion. So the the impression is is that the location of that well was within the city limits and that because the study was done in just last year or 2024 we approved last year that that property location um has been firmly identified but you're saying that it was not um we were still just using that. So what we're doing right now in proceeding uh is a is a takeoff of that of this plan but it was using that image from that 2016 2017 study. >> That is correct. That is correct. >> Okay. >> You guys have any I don't think I have any other questions. Are there a more public comment? >> Lisa Green Douglas. I have a question. Um that so if you were to use Dustiker's land and to create this, you said something about that it would be um $18 million, a little over $18 million and would be completed by 2028. And Ryan, you and I were talking beforehand and you said that the city, if they acquire land for like utilities and water and such that you don't have to annex it, so it's still county property. Who gets taxed for that $18 million? County people or city people? >> There's no tax involved. All this >> like So how is that paid back? How is that >> user fees for the water? >> It's a utility. as an enterprise fund >> and so it's usage only in the city. >> Yes. >> Okay. >> All right. So, and then um there was one other question I had. Um yeah, I I guess you know just going to that um I really appreciated your remarks about are we looking to the future? um are we can taking into consideration what the growth might be and all of those things and I just I I can't emphasize enough what is the growth and what is [clears throat] that u draw down rate and where are we going to be in 10 years in 20 years in 20 years it's going to be down 42 feet um >> Lisa if you wouldn't mind I think this is something that we've already covered and if time is of the essence >> yeah I I think new additional information >> you're not using all the information available to you. So I just think that some of those things have been considered but some things have not been considered. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. By >> all means, Mr. Duster. >> One just one other question on this map. Is the black area the well? >> Yes. >> The black area is the well? >> Yes. >> Do you all notice where that is? That's just across the fence line. I >> I'm with you. And uh look back, there's a house. See, there's a house. There's the street that you propose to build. Uh some sort of parking, but the well is going to be on the fence line. Any reason why it can't be on the other side of the fence line? And it's your property and you can do an easement on our property. >> That was a question I was looking for some answers for. >> I don't understand. See, that's first I've seen this picture. I thought they were going to put the well out at the end of that road that they were going to build. And uh you know, I said I said to Lois and I were saying, "You want to build a street and put a parking area there and then you got all the rest of this land?" And somebody commented, "Well, that could be part of the park." Well, we're not paying, you know, the city shouldn't annex this land to add more to the park. But now, if you're putting your well right on that fence line, you're utilizing the western half of Deerfield Park. Uh because the the kids stuff is way over on the other side, but you're pretty close to that house right there, too. I don't that just doesn't make sense to me. So that just the question is if that's where the well's going to be, move it 10 ft across the fence and you don't have any problem with me. [snorts] >> Thank you. I I apologize. I've been addressing as Mr. Dustiker and I know that's Dr. Duster. My apologies. You >> want John to go? >> Uh I thought I had asked John um for some clarification, but you jumped in on it. John, do you have anything else to add? >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, it's my understanding that the DNR requires us to control that area, that 200 f feet around the wells. Um, especially when we're outside of our city limits. Um, and the reasons why is because you have to control the land application of chemicals that happens in that area. So herbicides, pesticides, those things like that have to be controlled around a 200 foot radius of the well. Um within your city limits, the city has an ordinance that already um prohibits property owners, the city from applying pesticides, herbicides of those things within 200 ft of the well. We can't control that outside our city limits. um the DNR requires us to control that area and that is why we need this 200 foot radius around the wellfill site. >> So even if the well was pushed just a little bit south here, we would still need an access drive, our building, um electrical, mechanical, everything to access that, but we would still need to control 200 ft around that area, which would require still to acquire this property from the doctor. Thank you, John. I think that's what I was looking for and and while that might not be the answer Dr. Duster is looking for, but it's the reason why. So, we need to control the 200 feet to the north um of it. So, that really kind of simplified it for me. I appreciate that that explanation. Are there any additional comments during this public hearing? >> Good evening. My name's Robert Sentman. You don't know me. I don't know most of you, but we'll probably get to know each other as time goes on. [clears throat] What we're dealing here, and I'm thinking things a little bit differently out of the box, if you will, how you're thinking. You know, we've taken water as a [clears throat] real luxury item as human beings. Uh my time in this community goes long back and my great greatgrandfather was one of the first homesteaders of this town in 1838. In fact, his log cabin still part of the house out here off Scales Bend Road back in not too many days ago years ago. I can remember when we had dug wells and sistns in this town and people carried the water into the kitchen with a bucket. Generally a little guy like me who was about eight or 10 years old got to do that. So times have changed. You put in water systems, you've done real well. But it's a luxury that we're dealing with. The elephant in the room right now, and nobody's really addressed this thing. We're on a supply. The AIs that have been hitting this area, they're here for one reason. We're a little bit ignorant on the use of our resources. And people know that from out of state. You go to California, you go to Nevada, you go to Arizona, you're not going to get this kind of reception. We do not have that plentiful supply. The solar Aqua Fire starts about Highway 20 and goes down to about the Missouri W Missouri border and covers about the eastern third of Iowa. It's been a good aquifier. The Jordan is one that's about a two we call it a 2,000 ft deep well. You guys have got three of them. Uh, but you're limited. I know you're limited. You only draw so much water per year out of that. The point here is I think it's time we do some critical thinking. On [clears throat] the 16th of February of this year, Greg Brennan, who's a University of Iowa hydraologist, addressed a group of citizens in Solen, Iowa about this very thing. And they said then that the communities of North Liberty, Tiffen, Solen are growing, but the Saluran Aqua Fire is being depenished. On the 25th of a or 28th of August of 19 or 2025, Julie Thomas who's a member of the geological survey, United States Geological Survey, made a study and it said by the year 2045 that the Suran occupier would probably be 13 to 45 feet lower than where it is now. I can attest to that. [clears throat] In 1988, we had a severe drought here in Iowa and the Midwest. Actually, what happened is one morning we got up and we found out the faucet did not spew out any water. Our stock tanks were running dry. [cough] Had to call our well people. Well, they were busy. Come to find out during that drought, the University of Iowa's air conditioning system drew so much water out of its Luran aquifier that we had to drop our well pumps in our wells. I was the 189th when the Atlanta well firm dropped and they had much more on their list and there were a bunch of other well people doing the same thing. Generates, uh, Novatnees, it was a universal thing. So, you know, you you this this learning aquifier spreads out. Everybody's on it. It's a it's a good aquifier, but we've got to think out of the box today if we want to preserve and keep going where we're going. Nile talked about over here in Madison Township. I know a little bit about Madison Township. I think if they were to get one of those charming letters that Grant here sends out that says, "Hey, we want your property. And if you don't agree with us, we're going to take it anyway." That That's pretty setting. You know, got to think about this. They've got water rights, too. It's not your water. It's not their water. It's everybody's water, actually. But they happen to own the surrounding area around this water. So what I'm saying to you all, North Liberty has grown, Tiffen has grown, Sen has grown. Have you asked yourselves, have we started to outgrow our resources? [clears throat] That's a solid question you should be thinking about. In one of your articles, I read your plan. It's good plan in places. It's got a band-aid approach and others, but Europe projections for the year 2045 is to have 48,400 people as residents of this town. That's almost double. Or maybe it is more double. So instead of a small amount of water you already draw today, you're going to be drawing a great great more tomorrow. So what's the impact going to be on these AI centers? Nobody knows the latest proposal that the one that wants to locate up by PO Nuclear Plant put in an application and a a paper talking about drawing out of the Suran aquifier. Now, most people don't understand these aquifiers, but their proposal was 14 million gallons [clears throat] a day. Okay. Think about that for a little bit. 14 million a gallon a day. What's the worst thing that happens on some of those systems? The water comes in one den, it never leaves. It goes up in steam. There is no ejection. These ones are being built up here right now on Edgewood Road. There's a couple of them that are trying to think about something a little different. Use a little different system, but mainly they are doing the same thing. That water is not going back as runoff or anything else. It's just going up in steam. It's going to affect a lot of things. So, right now, we as people don't know what we don't know. But my recommendation to you guys is maybe we ought to think about where we're headed and do we really want to go. You know, heaven forbid slow down development. I know that's motto of North Liberty. Grow, grow, grow, grow, grow. But if you outgrow your resources, what are you going to do then? Where's your plan taking you? Nowhere. You're going to have a disaster. I' I visit with a lot of people. I uh live between here and Tiffen and we've got people moving in and you all have them but I visit with a lot of them and where you from and they'll say California. Why are you here? We couldn't afford to live in California anymore. Well, we couldn't pay the water bill. We couldn't pay the electric bill. We couldn't pay the rent. We couldn't do this. Couldn't do that. The other thing just got a good place to live. They run out of the resources. we have a good chance of this electrical problem along with water. The water is what we're here tonight about and it's something that I want to encourage you to give a good hard look at your future planning. Can you afford to do this? This cost costs millions and millions of dollars. And if Grant sends those letters out to those guys in Madison Township and they're going to say, "Oh, heck, we're going to fight this." you know, you're going to spend a lot of money and you're going to waste a lot of time and I don't think you'll be successful. So, where do you go from here? This is the things you got to be thinking about. This is critical planning. Now, you can sit here and say, "I'm going to kick the can down the road because I'm not going to be here in 19 more years. Ryan won't be working here anymore. He'll be retired. You guys will all be off doing something else. So, it's not your problem. It is your problem. You're here. You're now. And this is when you should be thinking about where are we headed in the future and how we going to get there and how are we going to do it. Failure to plan is a plan to fail. Pure and simple. I thank you. >> Thank you, General Sutman. And I'll reiterate tonight that we are um taking the next step that we need to for growth. Um getting out to Madison Township is going to be many many years from now. If we are doing that, we're going to be there. Um like we are close with these wells right now. That said, um I I don't not I do not disagree with the the the conversations that need to be had on how we're using water. And I'll say that again. Um, this is a concern I brought up to you all in our planning session a couple of months ago and I probably brought it up two years prior to that, if not four years prior to that. Um, that's it's an issue uh that we that we need to look at. It's not on the agenda tonight. It's not part of this plan. The plan is to take care of those residents that we have here and in the very foreseeable future out there. So, I try to separate those thoughts. Um, but we need to be thinking about and collaborating with uh our our county um and our state on how we conserve water because this is a finite resource. Does anyone else have any comments from the public? >> I do, but I'm going to remain seated. >> Mr. Cameron, would you mind just speaking up loudly? And we have some microphones above you. I will. Thank you. Has there been any studies for alternatives rather than putting these in or Jordan wells down? For example, the regional water treatment facility, different municipalities, Corville, Tiffen, North Liberty, Swisser. >> I don't believe there has been. I don't know the answer to that question. >> How about the Alvia Wells north of here? John, can you hear this these questions? Okay, because I think these might be questions for you. >> I apologize. I I could not hear that. >> Yep. >> Alternatives to drilling wells. uh Olivia wells north of here. There are shallow wells. Uh I think Cedar Rapids uses quite a few of those. Other cities along uh the major rivers do as well. And then uh any thought on a regional uh treatment facility, a regional water system? I just had [clears throat] some thoughts here and I Coravel has just drilled a new well, well number 16 and uh other alternatives rather than drill that well were apparently considered. expanded ex existing well fields with additional saluran and Jordan wells. Um project was selected for ability of land minimize the impact to the environment. Other alternatives were considered. U additional treatment would be necessary to maintain water quality. But uh it all goes down to the fact that you know constructing surface intake and in and out of the existing wells or connecting to the regional water facility was really never considered and apparently it has not here as well. It's just stop gap because you're under the gun. >> I'm not I'm not saying >> we're talking we're talking long term. >> Correct. And that's what I was going to get at. I'm not I'm not certain that this project qualifies in any sense whatsoever to be stopped in order for us to consider a regional system. I think that goes right along with our conservation efforts that need to be studied and whether or not a regional system should be and can be established. We have no idea what that might look like, but I think that's a that's a little bit um outside of the scope of what we're trying to determine here tonight. But >> so my question John is uh can can you describe to us or tell us about in the study where aluvial wells may have come into the conversation um and why they why they may not be a good solution or why they weren't part of the [clears throat and snorts] uh the plan that we have in front of us. >> And you know mayor I'd love I would love to be able to speak to that. Um I I was not the engineer that that worked on that particular study and I know that they hired um a hydrogeeologist to investigate um the best source of water for the demands for the city of North Liberty. Um I'm assuming that they looked at shallow wells. I'm I'm I'm assuming also as part of this they looked at um actually using a surface water from the the Iowa River um which is is a very challenging um treatment process to use the surface water um source for that. So um we would have to get back to you about the actual study and what was looked at for shallow wells for from an aluvial well standpoint. >> Thank you. Yeah, I would know I do recall this study and I [clears throat] we can probably um circulate it here. We looked at both of those items. We also looked at reusing uh the wastewater effluent the wastewater effluent coming out. We talked about that as a possibility. That of course is extremely expensive uh but an option uh however and the DN we submitted that report to the DNR and and they agree the DNR agrees with this uh this The salarian aquifer is the best step for us right now. But aluvial wells, we're in a unique position here with the Corville reservoir. Not all communities have that option. And then in the study or in the um meetings today everything is addressed as divisions three and four or two and three rather. In the study everything is uh phase by phases. What's the difference? U we we refined this as as from the original study and so um now we've broken this up into different divisions and so division one is um um what I mentioned to extend the conversion of the existing ASR and raw raw water main and division two um is is simply to hire um a drilling contractor to drill well number 10 and 11. That's very specialized construction. So, we just wanted to hire them directly. And division three was um all the raw water mane utility work associated um that I discussed. And division 4 is the final completion of the um well sites with the buildings and structures and pavement along with the upgrades needed at the water treatment plant. So it's all come together divisions one through four different bid packages all just over $18 million. uh and when when these uh when when the documentation was assembled to to approve these things, there was a a mention of a phase one and 2A. So, you've mentioned uh some terrifying letters uh that I've sent out. Uh those are the the paint by number letters required by the state. They are terrible letters. Uh at that point in time, we were referring to those phases as one one and 2A, but they are uh now properly re reconsidered as divisions two and three. the the acqu and so for tonight the >> the next item on the agenda for the resolution is is uh to be able to acquire land for drilling the well to be able to acquire land for >> summary and conclusion section seven >> uh page uh 7-02 >> summary of project costs and the schedule and opinion we got phase 1 a phase two and then we have the alternative one and alternative two. What's all that about? Has that been changed? >> What you're looking [clears throat] at is a is a plan that provides framework for these projects. So, yes, things have changed and I'd be happy to visit with you and go through that page by page with you. >> But we have we have here [clears throat] FA phase 1A for example, drill two solar wells. That's what's in debate today. Then you got the membrane replacement and buildout uh estimated completion uh 2028. >> Yes, >> that's still valid. >> Yes. >> Yes. >> Okay. Well, I'd like to see the the current phasing Sure. >> Which you identify as as divisions. >> Yeah, we can certainly do that. >> Okay, [snorts] that's all I have. I think there's alternatives to be had, but short term uh you're focused on the short term. Thank you, Mr. Cameron. Anyone else in the audience wishing to address us during this public hearing? [clears throat] >> I was just going to answer some of the questions that were asked here tonight, I guess. Uh, >> Greg, can you introduce yourself, please? >> I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm Greg Metick, the water superintendent here in North Liberty. Um I've [clears throat] been here a number of years and to the question of a regional system uh that has been looked at was talked about um before the treatment plant was invested in and built and constructed. Um and at that time it was not a real feasible option. The other thing we have to remember is even with a regional system they'll still need water. They'll still need these expansions. They'll still need everything to account for growth. So it would be potentially shifting up from North Liberty to a you know we're still going to pay we're still going to build we're still going to have all these investments and infrastructure going forward. Uh to the question of aluvial wells. Um with the type of treatment process we have with the RO membranes. Um before the state would allow us to construct that type of treatment plant, we had to go out and actually set up a pilot unit run off of the different types of raw water to make sure that we didn't foul membranes to make sure that we didn't cause any problems with the treatment process. And uh aluvial wells tend to be surface water oriented. So, you have a lot of other contaminants to deal with. Uh, and the type of treatment process that we're running. Uh, I'm not saying it can't be done, but it would potentially get very expensive and additional equipment would have to be added to try and treat using those waters. Um, just want to clarify that, I guess. >> Thanks for that, Greg. That was good context. [clears throat] >> Are there any other comments? Thank you all for what you've provided to us and I will close the public hearing and move on to item C which is resolution number 2026-62. This is a resolution to authorize approval to proceed with the public improvement the water supply and treatment improvements project divisions 2 and three. I think we all know what this one is, so I won't ask for any questions, but do you could I have a motion for consideration? >> Uh, just a few comments before maybe any motion from me. Mayor, if if you don't mind, I just wanted to first say thank you to everyone that >> Would you mind, Brian? Could we make a motion first and then we'll get to that? Okay. >> Okay. Uh, >> do you want to make a motion? >> So moved. >> Second. Thank you. The Brian's. Okay. Brian, thank you for that point of order. Uh just wanted to again say thank you all for your perspective uh your passion the the viewpoints. It is certainly uh helpful I think to hear and understand where you all are coming from and the perspective that you do does impact this council for sure. So thank you for that. Um comments on just the the what's in front of us from a voting standpoint as I understand. Grant, thank you again for the overview. this is a tool if necessary in order to put some things in place so that we can have the appropriate negotiations which you said willing to have. So thank you for that willingness and that flexibility to have that negotiations as I understand this is just arming us to have that conversation even more intentionally. Um my understanding of this is this has been an intentional approach uh as much transparency as we've had and given the time frames that some of our hands were tied with the DNR. So, thank you for explaining that as well because I think that all goes into the decision we're making again just on whether we should have this tool at the ready if we need. Um, and then I think just my last comment would be more along the lines of, you know, there's a there's a quote and I'm going to butcher it. Um, but Kirby Smart is a head football coach at the University of Georgia and he has a quote that says something along the lines of leadership means making decisions, tough decisions for the most even though it may negatively impact or um maybe not be the most popular decision and that's what this council is charged to do with. So that's the lens that I will be viewing uh vote vote through. Um, but I certainly appreciate the passion and and perspective that you all have shared because I can guarantee you at least from my seat, it is impactful. Thank you. Thank you, mayor. >> Welcome, Brian. Any other questions or comments? >> Mayor, from my spot, um, I had I too had concern about how quickly we move to the imminent domain conversation. As I shared earlier, um the perspective that was shared in the education to to me for tonight was uh I I too and similarly was looking at why could the wellhead not be in the park and then the allowance of um rideofway allow the continued agricultural work. What I have learned in this process is by code, even if that wellhead were to be in the park, we still have to control 200 ft north of that wellhead, which is would require us to enter into negotiations uh with the doctor and his family um to control that that parcel. So, by moving the wellhead into the park, which is what my first choice was coming into tonight and why I asked the questions that I did, uh still would not allow for the agricultural use of the property of the the 200 ft uh north of the wellhead based off of uh state code saying that we have to uh control that for chemical uh application purposes. So, that was um that was impactful for me on the education part. I'll echo what Brian said. Um um Mr. Cameron has been in uh council chambers a number of times. Um he uh has negotiated in good faith with this city on multiple projects and Cameron, it's uh Mr. Cameron, it's always good uh to hear your perspective and we appreciate uh the work that um that you've done with this city. Uh and to the uh two new folks um three folks that I met uh this evening. Um I appreciate the the conversations and your comments tonight as you as you saw helped educate us on what exactly we were looking at. I think that longer term conversations about water and water consumption absolutely have to occur. Um but it is uh again outside of the scope of what we're looking at at this point. Uh and so with with that education and knowing that we are we are going to have to control the property to the north even if we put the wellhead in the park which was my first option. Um I will be voting in favor to move forward. I will ask and I will assure from my seat and with my one vote and my conversations uh with the city manager that happen frequently that these conversations that are uh had with you are done so as we always do appropriately to the code transparently with the public. Uh and we look forward to those uh negotiations moving forward and hoping that we're able to work with you. Thank you, mayor. Thank you. Other comments, Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> Libold, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> Mason, >> I. >> For I. >> Thank you all. Motion carries 40. Item D is resolution number 2026-63. This is a resolution of approval of the access agreement with MAJ Properties I LLC regarding the water supply and treatment improvements projects divisions two and three. Could I have a motion for consideration please? >> So moved. >> Second move by W and seconded by Lold. Are there any questions about this one? >> Tracy, could we also have a roll call, please? >> Courtney I. Mason >> I >> Libold >> I >> Smith >> I motion carries 40. Move on to item 14. This is 2740 Stoner Court site plan and Russ heard from you all night long. Excited about this. >> No. >> Uh are we able to get the There we go. >> All right. Uh this is a preliminary site plan. Uh, another one in the II industrial 380 industrial park. Uh, this is at the very south end of Stoner Court. Uh, 5.19 acres. Uh, property zoned uh, light industrial and um, commercial urban flex on the land use. So, the zoning is consistent with the land use. Uh, and there's a site plan [clears throat] which shows a building addition on the north side and south side of the building. Uh, the dark gray area would be uh, an outdoor storage area. Uh notably, we do require in the uh ordinance for outdoor storage areas to be paved and there be screening. Uh so certainly a discussion that we had uh considering that we're on a a very important corridor through through North Liberty on being I 380. Here's a couple renderings of just showing the building. The the the building is in the center and then the additions would be on the the left and the right or the north and south. We do have uh the newer sections require masonry for our ordinances. Um these are the uh they're shown on the site plan, but these are the landscaping materials. I wanted to give a graphical uh representation of of what those would be. So it's a mixture of they would be minimum of 5 ft required at the time of planting. These are evergreens. They're not deciduous. Uh so we'll be out checking to make sure they they're installed uh to perform an adequate buffer uh around that uh area because that's that's an important but there's four different types of of evergreen shown. Uh these are the approval standards that we have and and it was staff's and planning commission's uh uh opinion that they they met those standards. We do not have any objections to the request currently and the planning commission did have one finding uh in the unanimously recommended approval and I do see uh Doug here with Brain Engineering uh to represent the application. Thank you, mayor. >> Thanks, Russ. Any questions for uh Russ before we turn this over? >> Just one question, Russ. the the screening, you know, that's that's industrial zone. Um, the culde-sac to the north and the west. Are they having to screen north and west or just east for >> this? So, uh, it's on the south on the and on the west side of the parking lot and on the along the east and then actually um, since you have some existing concrete, uh, what they did was they put the screening along the north end of the property. So, it'll be screened on all four sides. Screening an industrial building from other industrial buildings. >> Screening the outdoor storage area. >> Okay. All right. >> It's specific to outdoor storage areas. Those conditions. >> Okay. Thank you. >> Yeah, certainly if this was just a industrial building and they were doing all uses inside and and just a parking lot wouldn't even required. Good, good, good question. >> Any others for Russ? There is an applicant presentation. >> Doug Brain with brain engineering engineer for the project. Uh not a whole lot to add. I think the city did a great job putting everything together. Uh it's just expanding the business and so expanding the building and then the parking lot to or the outdoor storage just to expand everything. >> Thank you. Any questions? Appreciate it. We'll move on to item C, which is resolution [clears throat] 2026-64. This is a resolution approving the preliminary site plan for I3, the industrial park lot 15, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second move by Smith, seconded by Libold. [clears throat] >> Any other questions? Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> Won >> I. Lieel. >> Hi. >> Bortney. >> Hi. >> Smith. >> Hi. >> Is that everybody? Motion carries. 40 zero. Thank you. Item 15 is Cherry Street Commercial Subdivision. And Russ, back to you for planning commission and staff recommendations. >> Thank you, mayor. This is uh adjacent to the uh North Dakota Community Center. It's probably one of the easiest flats we've done. Uh there's really no physical changes on the property. It's my understanding there's one larger lot. uh it's actually less than an acre. Uh but they just want to dissolve the condominium regime and and subdivide into two lots. Um and so you just see those two lots uh just way the parking lot is configured. They'll have a shared access agreement which is already existing. Um again just a very straightforward no public improvements or anything like that. Um and and in fact, since we didn't have any public uh improvements, the subdivision ordinance uh says that we do not have to have a good neighbor meeting. There's really no purpose. Uh and so there are no objections to the request and the approval standards are in chapter 180. Uh planning commission uh had two findings and they unanimously recommended approval. Thank you, mayor. >> Thanks, Russ. Are there any questions? Is there an applicant presentation? Seeing none, I'll move to item C, which is resolution number 2026-65. This is a resolution approving the preliminary plat for Cherry Street commercial subdivision, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration? >> So moved. >> Second by W and seconded by Smith. >> Tracy, could I have a roll call, please? >> Libold, >> I. >> Courtney, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. I >> motion carries 40. Kept up with you that time. Item 16 is urban lofts preliminary site plan. Russ, can you take it from here? >> Thank you, mayor. Uh, so this is a request of UCD Holdings approval of a preliminary site plan on 10.18 acres. Uh, we we discussed this quite a bit uh mostly last year. Uh, and it shows property location north and south side of uh Cherry and Zeer and west of the Cranig Railroad. Um, this property was reszoned to C3 and a small portion being P uh in the the public use district in the Muddy Creek area. Uh, the P portion will ultimately be dedicated to the city. Uh, and on the uh on the map on the right side is a future land use map which is uh urban high intensity and also the uh public um open space. So zonings are consistent with the future land use. Um kind of two um sections. Uh the left one is would be uh towards Cherry Street and the the one on the right would be uh towards Zeller. Uh but the site plan proposes four 63 unit uh buildings and two 51 unit buildings total of 354 units. uh the related private infrastructure. Um and the site plan is consistent with the concept plan depicted uh during the 25 uh zoning map amendment. There were some changes um but mostly trying to move the buildings away from the uh residential properties to the east. You may recall that the bu there was a building height limitation with the CUC3 resoning ordinance uh to limit the building height. CUC3 allows for up to 75 ft. Uh but this was a limitation uh for 60 feet to generally be consistent with what an industrial building could have been built with um with a with a hipper gable roof. Here are some renderings um of the building. Um, one emphasis, one thing that we've emphasized to the scale of these buildings was to have some building articulation both vertically and horizontally to add some interest to the building which is shown here. Uh, we do have the uh just two approval standards um consistency with all adopted ordinances and regulations um and consistency with the comprehensive plan and again staff and planning commission. uh have it's there our opinion that it achieves consistency with those. Um would also like to point out that the uh preliminary plat has already been approved. Um and it is very consistent with what is shown on the preliminary plat. preliminary plat was submitted after the resoning and again shows those buildings moved away from uh those residential properties to the east of the of the Kandig Railroad. Um some things notable also I think we talked at the at the resoning hearing was a landscape buffer a hedge row uh adjacent to the Kandig railroad just to kind of block headlights that would be coming on. Those are shown on the preliminary site plan. just kind of want to reiterate um what we think the traffic impacts would be. Um we have uh Cherry Street or the most recent data that we have for both streets uh Cherry and Zellar is [snorts] 2020 2022 and those are done by DOT. Um the West Cherry Street is is uh 40 about 4600. West Zeller Street is about uh 4,200 and those are generally in the 30% of capacity range. Um I I checked with uh our NO office and and the maximum u of both streets is is 13,000. So just gives you an idea of what the cap what the current traffic is um compared to what the capacity is. We just looked at what traffic impacts would be. Um 4.54 when you look at an average daily trips. Those are the the uh traffic that we would anticipate would would be on both roads throughout the day. Um those are rated at 4.54 um per dwelling unit. Um and that gives a total impact of 1,607 and you' split that between two both streets. Um so 804 going to Cherry, [clears throat] 804 to Zeller as an estimate. Um I would note that you know for a single family residence the the rate uh for traffic is is about 9.55 per dwelling unit. This is obviously much less um more than half um generally because the housing the the unit sizes are smaller. You have less people living in them. Um and also that we anticipate people will walk and ride their bicycles and things like that. Um, also in in in transportation, uh, you look at kind of what the AM and PM peak is, and these are are are people that are entering and the roadway during the morning commute, uh, and the and the evening commute. Uh, the rate is uh, the AM peak uh, 45 and the PM peak 39. And so those correspond to let's see the AM peak 159 vehicles um and 138 uh in the PM. Um overall we it just I think this demonstrates that the overall impact um although it's it it's a large development it'll be impactful certainly um the overall impact to the transportation system is is is quite low. um you're moving from like a low 30 to um into the into the 40% range of of the capacity of that roadway. So, there's still plenty of adequate um capacity on both roadways. Um there are two letters of objection that were re received. Um there was one finding uh and the planning commission accepted that listed finding and forwards the the request to city council with a recommendation for approval. Uh and that vote at the planning commission was unanimous. Thank you mayor. Thank you Russ. [cough] [clears throat] I don't see or is there an applicant presentation? Thank you. I mean to just skip right over you after all this time. >> Certainly. Uh John Martner with MMS Consultants representing the applicant. Uh just stay quickly. Uh Brandon, apologize. He's not able to be able be here this evening to speak to you. Uh I would just add to Russ's presentation uh [clears throat] that as he pointed out, we we from the beginning of this project way back at the zoning, there's been changes that we've talked about. He touched on them briefly. We changed it, looked at the orientation of the buildings, pushing the buildings back away from the east property line as best as possible. Um, providing different size buildings, those 51 unit build 51 unit buildings and then the the uh other buildings and those 51 unit buildings are the ones where the full face of the building is facing to the east, but those are the ones that are also uh pushed back. The larger buildings with the with the more units are the ones where you're only looking at the end of the unit. So, you're not looking at that entire length of the building. Um, and other than that, I don't have anything else to add. I'm happy to answer any questions if you have any. >> Any questions for John? >> John, what's the what's the buffering that's been added? Because that that was a significant uh talking point uh from a member of the community and it looks like you've added that. >> Yes, we we've Sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off. Okay. So, we have the 10-ft buffer uh along that east property lane along the railroad. It's a mix of trees, deciduous trees generally speaking, and and uh shrubbery. So, it's a it's a little bit of a layered effect there where you've got the shrubs and you have the trees to provide some it's not just one continuous row of herbiva, for lack of a better way to put it. It's a it's a mix of mix of uh species there. >> I had a question about the entrances onto Cherry and Zeller Street. Uh there was questions with regards to how close it was to the um to the tracks. Um did we take a look at that? >> Yes. You want to >> Yeah, [cough and clears throat] we did review that with the Crandic Railroad about a year ago. Just that exact same question. What's their rules, regulations? Um they have a require requirement for a minimum of 50 ft from the track to that nearest driveway. And I don't have my drawings here from zoning, but I think we're about 85 to 90 ft. So, they both said, "Yeah, those those meet our requirements for the tracks. We don't have an issue with that." >> So, what are the requirements for street access? Because is that considered a driveway then? >> Yeah, we're This is not a public street. So, this this is a driveway access to this development out both sides. So, we would use driveway standards then instead of the public street. >> I apologize in advance because I'm new to this, but um why 354 units? Why so many in that small area? >> Yeah, this is something that we looked at uh last year. Um really um during the reasoning um it was really we looked at a couple of different options about how to scale down the project. Um I think I think three 300 you know there was a variety of different options during the reasonzoning of can we do town houses um and and things like that and and it just the the I think the the financial impact of of being able to really it made a project not feasible if you know certainly I think we looked at compatibility of okay we could put just we could make this all town houses if we wanted to um but but the problem is um you're not going to make the the project um work from a financial standpoint of of the acquisition, tear down the existing industrial and then developing those properties. It was just not financially feasible. >> Do any of these fall in that the work credit? What is that? >> Workforce housing. >> Yeah. No, they these won't um they didn't uh they did not apply for that in the likelihood of getting two [clears throat] applications funded in one year. Okay. >> Ryan, I would say though they don't qualify for funding because of the unit price, but I foresee these being used as workforce housing for sure. >> Sure. I I was strictly talking about the the actual the state program. They're whether they're they just didn't apply for correct those are limited funds. >> Yeah. So, >> but but when we have talked about in the in the past about a lack of workforce >> housing and the number of units for work for for workforce as as we've tried to get larger companies to move to North. That's been one of our sticking points is is the lack of workforce housing. This will be one of those even though it's not being funded through the government as workforce housing. I just want to make that distinction from my seat. >> Yeah. And we and we we talked a lot about this during the the resoning, but you know, the character of of of this area um is is really dramatic. Um as as you cross literally as you cross railroad tracks. Um you know, we have a much different scale of development uh as you go west of the Krandic. Um I think as you go as you go east and you can see the map on on our future land use map to the right. um larger lots um I think different character entirely. And so we really looked at that as being the dividing line for something that would be higher density. Um and our discussion in 2025 was, you know, if we had this type of scale of development um east of the tracks adjacent to kind of our original town, it just that scale wouldn't be appropriate. Um but this is really as you I mean this is really was the edge of town. Um and hence the industrial area was built there. Um and and you know as Cherry Street uh was was it hasn't been that long that Cherry Street was extended then you had more of a contemporary type of development with a different type of scale and and so in our opinion continues to be that scale um is is much different although close and adjacent um there is some separation to what defines a character east of the tracks versus west of the tracks. So, we had approved the um building across from the rec center, which was pretty industrial looking um units and stuff, and the look of this is really industrial. Is there any way to blend it to be more of a transition to like what we have across from the rec center or is that not an option? like how >> I I I suppose I would differ on you on on an industrial look and I don't know what you mean by that is I don't know if I don't know I don't know what you mean by cuz I don't know if you mean by just having a flat roof or or >> Well, I guess the the flat roofs and the um I mean it's the steel color and like the brick and um to me it looks more industrial than like homey and and I guess >> yeah, I have talked to the developer about the steel and I think that might be a change. Um >> he sent pictures they're just they're very small on my phone. He sent them right before I right before I got here that they just had some updated renderings. I don't know how >> set in stone they are. So I don't want to >> mislead anybody by presenting something. I'm happy to share them with you. I'm going to walk them around again. Again, I apologize in because I wasn't part of those conversations. >> That's fine. I I would note that that those are accent details. You know, you still have quite a bit of masonry, the 40%, you have a lot of window glazing. So, the and then these what we would call in kind of an accent material. Um I would note about the flat roof is is super common in in more urban environments and in fact for multif family buildings in um commercial we require them to have a flat roof with a parapet. When you start getting into a um a gable roof or or a roof like that um it it tends to be a little bit more of a residential type feel um which is not bad. Um but it's just a different type of um development style. Thank you. >> Thanks, John. Thank you. >> Sorry. Were there any other questions? All right. I didn't think so. I'll move on to item C, which is resolution number 2026-66. And this is >> comment. >> I'm sorry, Arty. We don't have it on the on the agenda. >> I thought I was just error. I I will welcome an opportunity to hear from you, but please limit it. We we do know the the comments. >> I'm well aware of the time I get up at 4:30 in the morning. >> No, my view. >> All right. I'm I'm I'll I'll make an exception uh on this, but if you >> thought you'd made an error >> where I would have spoke at the very beginning and been home in bed by now. Um all of you know who I am. Um I want to hand these out. This is different than what I submitted previously. Um, what I'm asking for now, um, is a safety study. Something I know I've asked for before. I'm sure the microphone picked me up well because I'm loud. >> Thank you. >> Um, and I have one of those distinctive voices that carries well. Um, I have tried multiple times to get a safety study done on this and I think the problem is that maybe I didn't look at uh, as the gentleman said before outside the box. Um, Sudice, which I've been reading a lot and boy is it boring. Um, states that traffic studies should be done under certain circumstances. The problem is we're only looking at this phase by phase. We shouldn't be looking at it as a phase. UCD took $20 million of my money and I really think that you need to look at it as a whole as a community does and in saying that it then well fits within the parameters. Also, if I understood sudust once uh the minute you hit a 100 cars during peak hours these safety studies become more prevalent and something we really need to do. Now, I know I'm on a limited time. That's why I included all these wonderful thoughts to all of you. I know you're tired and it's been a long day. You've been here a long time. I've never seen one of these go quite so late. But, um, I also know that Sudes says that the uh, studies can be originated not only by the planning director, but it falls on the city engineers responsibility list, too. So, we got two people here that are personally the ones who are accountable for whether or not these safety studies get done. So, I'm asking you, and I personally have asked myself and many people, why can't we get a safety study done? I actually looked at the accident sheet online just before I came. And if you take your picture and you include 965 all the way down to Stewart, just including that area, 25% of the accidents happen in that space. What is that? 2% of Fort Liberty, 1%. We already have a traffic issue there. The accidents are happening there. You've got two unsignaled crosswalks and you're saying we want to be a community. I've given you all my points. I'm going to let you guys ask the questions and uh Russ, I'll send this to you in the morning so you can add it. >> Okay. >> Um and uh I appreciate you being willing and I know you guys have talked enough tonight, but if you'd really think about this and realize that Sudas it stands for help me out. >> State statewide urban design and specifications. >> Thank you. Thank you. Um, these are guidelines that the city and the state really recommend. So, um, if you would pass a few of these questions around. I know I'm on a limit, but these are things I think we really need to think about. Also, one last point. I went back through so many of your meetings, and I could only find one side, one site, one time that a council member actually voted nay and it was on this topic. it was sitting. He's the one with the expertise. He went, "This is a bad idea to put this driveway where it is." So anyway, this council usually agrees on everything and the only thing you've disagreed on is this. So let's do a safety study. There's no reason not to. You know, protect the citizens. Don't have them later catching you at coffee time going, you know, I was in an accident and you know, such and such and heck, they're permanently disabled. Maybe if we' done a safety study, we would have known. But hey, all right, I'm really getting I get kind of cheerful late in the evening. So hopefully you guys will think about this, look at it, and I appreciate you making time for me. I am sincerely sorry. I really thought it was an oversight or I would have talked at the beginning. >> It's quite all right. My oldest daughter gets chippy at night as well already, so I appreciate it. >> Let's move on to item C, which is resolution number 2026-6. This is a resolution approving the preliminary site plan for Urban Lofts, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? So moved. Second. Move by Way and seconded by Lyold. Are there any other questions? So, I do not believe that this anywhere on there was on the MO um high risk intersection map. >> I don't either. And I and I tend to take the the I tend to take the presumption that our engineers and specifically our MO in their traffic studies are considering all of these elements already. So for for one to be to be highlighted uh to me is nice. Uh but that's that's what the MO is there for and that's what our engineers are and our planners are here to to advise us on >> but somewhere down the road we may need to look at something for the crosswalks for the we can do that as we go along. >> Don't disagree with you on that. Any other questions? >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> For nay libold. I >> Smith >> I >> Mason >> I. >> Motion carries 3 to one. Item 17 is water supply and treatment improvements division 1 ASR well number 7 conversion and item A is resolution number 2026-67. This is a resolution awarding contract for the water supply and treatment improvements division one ASR well number 7 conversion project. Could I have a motion for consideration please? So moved. >> Second. Move >> by W and seconded by Smith. To be clear, we're just awarding the contract for this. Are there any questions? >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> Won. >> I. >> Smith. >> I. >> Lyel. >> I. >> For >> I. >> Motion carries 40. Item B is resolution number 2026-68. This is a resolution accepting the bid and authorizing execution of the contract for water supply and treatment improvements division one ASR well number seven conversion project in North Liberty Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration? >> So move mayor. >> Second move by Smith, seconded by Libold. Any questions? >> This is the one where we awarded it to or we're looking to award it to win. Is that correct? >> That's correct. Yeah. And um have we used them before? >> We have not. Although uh Greg Metick was correct. >> Thank you. Sorry. We have not used them before. Uh but [clears throat] we've talked to four other We have talked to three other individuals on four different projects. All who have had very positive things to say about him. >> That's what I was going to ask. Thank you. [snorts] >> Good question. Any others? >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? Forney [clears throat] >> Ibold >> I >> Smith >> I >> Wson >> I >> motion carries 40. Uh item 18 is the I Bailey agreement. This is resolution number 2026-69. This is a resolution approving the master services agreement for tax consulting regarding energy incentives at the high center between the city of North Liberty and I Bailey LLP. Could I have a motion for consideration first, please? So moved. >> Second. Moved >> by Liebolt, seconded by Forney. Ryan, would you mind providing an overview for the good of the audience? >> Sure. We uh installed geothermal uh at the Hi Center and as a result uh we are uh uh entitled to some uh federal funding. And so uh we're asking the council to approve this agreement. Uh you said ID Bailey. I was calling him Edy. Ed Bailey Bailey. ID Bailey. Okay. Thanks for the correction. >> Uh has has expertise in this area. Uh they've worked with Shive before on these uh projects. So we're hoping to leverage uh maximize our uh return from the federal government by using this company. >> We can't do it ourselves. >> I suppose we could, but I'm just kidding. I'm not sure we'd maximize >> myself. It's 8:30. >> You guys have any questions? Did they guarantee? >> Uh, there's never any guarantees. >> Some degree of satisfaction guaranteed. >> Okay, >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> Won, >> I. >> LiDold, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> For I. >> Motion carries 40. Are is there any other Is there any old business? New business. I'll entertain a motion to adjurnn. >> So moved. >> Second >> by Liebold, seconded by Smith. All in favor say I. I. Opposed. >> We are adjourned.