Title: Public Improvements 2026: Centennial Park and Community Center
Published: 2026-03-26 16:50:37
Video ID: nBXp12j_WIA

Hello and welcome to our 2026 online project open house. I'm Nick Burgess. I am the city of North Liberty's community relations director. As construction season kicks off and will get underway shortly and it will last until the snow falls in late fall, late November. We have a bunch of improvements going on in North Liberty as well as a bunch of work under in design. So things like the Forevergreen Road Jasper Avenue improvements and next phase of Centennial Park development with a splash pad, as well as finalizing design for the final phase of Wacha Way, as well as work on the Cherry Street firehouse. So we'll cover all of those. We covered a few of those Monday and Tuesday. We'll talk about the firehouse tomorrow. Today we're talking about the community center and uh Centennial Park. There are a couple other projects in the area that we won't get to. Uh those are being led by the Iowa DOT. That's the Penn Street interchange as well as the city of Coralville, which is the work to extend Forevergreen Road between um 12th Avenue and the Dubuque Street North Liberty Road area. Uh you can find overviews of the projects at northlibertyiowa.org/projects. You can subscribe to updates including closures at northlibertyiowa.org/subscribe. And you can always email me at nbergus at northlibertyiowa.org. Here's a overview map of the projects that we're talking about this week. Forevergreen and Jasper down there in the southwest. Wacha, which we talked about yesterday, um which is in design for construction next year in the central part. The firehouse, which is right across from here at city hall on Cherry Street. Today we're talking about the community center uh parking lot and then the second phase of Centennial Park which is the splash pad. So, let's first do some quick introductions then we'll start with the community center work and then we'll switch to the Centennial Park. Uh, if the Shive team wouldn't mind jumping on and uh just introducing themselves real quick. Let's start with you Josiah uh and then we'll go from there. Yeah, thanks Nick. Uh, my name is Josiah BillsKimper. I work for Shive-Hattery and uh I'm also the city engineer for North Liberty. And Mike, you want to go next? Yeah, uh Mike Yancek with Shive-Hattery. So, I'm the civil engineer for the community center parking lot project and project manager for that one. Great. Uh, Emily and then we'll go Emily and Natalie then Emma. I'm Emily Shive. I work at Shive-Hattery and I assisted with the design for the community center parking lot. I'm Natalie Uppendahl. Uh, I'm an architect with Shive-Hattery. Um, I am uh I'll be talking a little bit about the splash pad uh and then join again tomorrow to talk about the firehouse. And I am Emma Reardon. I am a landscape architect with Shive-Hattery and today I will be talking about the splash pad project. Wonderful. Uh, we're going to jump right into it. Uh, if you have questions there should be a Q&A box. You can just drop those in as we go and we'll have a little bit of time for some Q&A uh at the end of these. All right, Mike take it away. All right, yeah so the the first project that we're going to talk to you guys about today uh is the community center parking lot improvements phase one project. Uh, this kind of touches on both sides of the North Liberty community center. So, image here is the kind of the shading on top of the aerial that's that's all of our proposed work that you can see uh the simpler side, so on the east side of the building uh we'll be taking a connection from the trail along Muddy Creek up to the west side or the east side of the parking lot uh and reconstructing the access drive uh that serves the community center and uh helps with like pool maintenance deliveries and all that kind of thing uh all the way up to the the east doors um of the community center. Then on the west side, uh a lot more going on, um realigning the south access from Cherry Street uh up through uh where we have the library entrance uh and really doing improvements between Community Drive and Cherry Street uh including reconstructing uh the driveway with concrete and the the darker shaded areas you can see there are doing a mill and overlay of the existing asphalt parking lot and drive access. One of the cool features here, uh we are including new sidewalk to actually get from Ranchero House area, Community Drive area all the way down to the community center sidewalk that already exists. Uh likewise, including sidewalk to get from Cherry Street up to the community center. Uh also including permanent speed tables, so today there are a couple rubber speed bumps um that get placed roughly in the the north and south of the the library area of that community uh of the community center access drive. Uh so these will be permanent speed tables, uh one of which will be included as a raised crosswalk. Um so that'll be a nice permanent safety feature. Uh one other notable item here, we are doing stoop improvements to the west access over by the library uh just to improve some some drainage issues that have been occurring there. Uh this project is currently still in design. We're just wrapping up design now uh to get this issued for bids here uh in the next week or so. Uh construction for the project would be anticipated uh late late spring, so basically summer of 2026 going through the fall of 2026. This project will have phases associated with it, so you'll always be able to access the community center. You'll always be able to access the library. Uh but at any given point during the project, some of the the means of accessing may change. Um at one point, the phasing will cause the closure of the access from Community Drive, but at that point you'll be able to access from the south from Cherry Street. Likewise, at some point Cherry Street access will be closed, but you'll be able to access through Community Drive. Um also at some point the west access to the building will be closed, so that library entrance will be closed um as some of these sidewalk improvements occur right outside that that doorway. But um connectivity will still be there through the building itself. Um so inconvenience, yes, but uh short-term problem for a for a better solution. Um on the east side of the building, really no major issues to to the public um since this is more of a uh staff usage or maintenance usage type of function, but gaining a uh an actual like ADA compliant sidewalk connection to the trail uh on the east side of the building will be a nice nice end result feature. Um this this super steep um paved connection here, that will go away as part of the project uh and be replaced by a little bit more of the meandering sidewalk. Perfect. Uh and then the thing Oh, keep going. Oh, no, it's Yeah, it's and really this this is just uh showing what we just talked about here, but a little bit more zoomed up of um the more cool features of this one. Um so, you can see here we have the the speed table rate cross-race crosswalk on the south side of the library area and then the other one on the north side of the library area. Uh and just a little bit more zoomed in view of what the sidewalk repairs actually are outside of the library. Um likewise, the east entrance of the building, that east access drive to service dumpsters and some of the pool chemical areas. Um it just gives a little better snapshot uh of what we're doing there. Um again, that one will have fairly low impact to residents during construction. Uh go ahead, Nick. Yeah, I was just going to say this is I'm really excited about this is, you know, I'm now at City Hall, but my office used to be at the community center and I I like to equip that parking lots do two things really badly. They're terrible to walk in and they're terrible to drive in, but like that's what we do in them. Um so, I'm thankful that we're we're making some of these pedestrian connections to walk to leave the building and to use the grounds a lot better. Um we know that a lot of folks use this space as a cut-through, which is why those speed bumps are there. Um and so, this is hopefully making it safer for folks who are using our facilities there as they move around the area. I guess one other thing to note on this one, there there are parking stalls that get permanently removed with this project. Um and that is basically the the compromise needed for improved safety and functionality uh of some of these areas. Well, wonderful. I think unless there are questions from from our viewers, I think well, let's move now to our next big exciting project. This is the the and this slide will be up again with my contact information. So, we're going to switch. Emma is going to pull up her her deck and we're going to talk about Centennial Park. This is the second phase of Centennial Park. And we're really excited to get it underway following the opening of the amphitheater last fall. Yes, we are super excited to have phase two of Centennial Park moving forward. Um this project um got awarded yesterday and will be starting construction this spring. Um the splash pad itself will be located directly east of the event center that was created for phase one. Um in this image you can see the event center in the background here. Um we also have shown the existing playgrounds by the north parking lot over here to help orient you a little bit. Um overall, this project includes an 8,000 square foot splash pad with uh non-slip colored surfacing on the ground. Um it includes a building that has 1,600 square feet about. And in there are four restrooms and then storage and mechanical space as well as a canopy that shelters a picnic area connected to the building. The project will also increase parking on the east side of the park which will be a combination of permeable parking stalls and concrete parking stalls. Um on the east side of the project, we have two large grass berms that will be providing some buffer space between the expanded parking stalls and the splash pad itself. We also will be connecting a main concrete sidewalk from the parking area through the middle of this project and then connect up to the event center sidewalks so that we have a very cohesive circulation system going on throughout the park. Um, we also have some planting areas along one side of the project that will provide some buffer from that main sidewalk, keep kids a little more contained within the splash pad area, um, and provide some shade with opportunities for planting some trees around the splash pad, which will be nice, um, in the summer for sure. As far as splash pad features themselves, we've got quite a variety included in this project, um, ranging from tall features that look like trees and flowers that, um, have water falling from above. Um, we've got a larger system in the middle that has a couple climbing elements and a very small slide. And then, um, we have some shorter elements maybe to use for some smaller kids on the north end of the splash pad, um, that just have bubblers and a little bit of a rock maze where water can flow through that. So, uh, this space will cater to a variety of ages of children, um, and then have a variety of options for um parents and other people to keep an eye on everyone who is playing in the splash pad. Thank you, Emma. I have a couple more images showing the the south end um showing some of the taller features that I just mentioned. And then this image is from the north side of the splash pad showing the kind of smaller scale features that we have included. And then we have a little bit of info about the building as well that Natalie might share. Great. Yeah. So, the building itself um for the most part is the basically the mechanical house uh for the splash pad. Um it does offer some storage for um parks events and uh park maintenance um as well as uh Emma mentioned, there is a covered picnic area. Um we do have a double drinking fountain in there uh with a bottle filler. Um so, that'll be accessible um when the splash pad is open. Um we do also have four um ADA compliant restrooms uh that will be uh single user restrooms that will be in the building. Um two of these restrooms actually have an adjustable height adult changing table in them um should that be needed in order to um change anyone for use of the splash pad. So, again, the exterior of the building um basically, we just went with uh uh a more organic uh water-esque pattern. Um there will be lighting on the underside of the um picnic area for safety in the evenings as well. So. And the I think the intent is in the future uh to uh for city staff uh to add some additional shelters out here for for rentals. This one would be wouldn't be rented, right? So that folks don't feel uncomfortable going up and using the restrooms there. Um but we're super excited by this. It was a lot of fun to pick out uh features here, a lot of discussion and debate as to what features both looked cool, but kids would also of all ages would also really love. Um the one thing that that I think is really cool to point out is that So this is an 8,000 square foot splash pad, which is larger than any others in the area. The The event hall at Centennial Park itself, if you go inside, that's 500 or excuse me, 5,000 square feet. So this is larger than that uh that interior space, which is super cool. Um and we know folks are just going to love this when it opens up. Not for next Not not not this fall, but for the spring 2027 season. Yes. Any other things that Natalie, Emma, that you want to pull out and and talk about for this? I think that is all we have to share for this one today. Amazing. If there's any questions for folks, uh go ahead and drop those in the box. Otherwise, Emma, if you would skip to the I think the last slide with my contact information. Perfect. Uh so there's overviews of this project and others at northlibertyiowa.org/projects. That's my name, Nick Bergus. You can If you reach out to me at nbergus@northlibertyiowa.org or my office, 319-626-5756. If you've got questions or concerns, let me know. If I don't have an answer, I will look to find it for you. Otherwise, this recording will be available afterwards if you want to go back and look at some of those and of course we'll be sharing lots of these renderings Uh cuz we're really excited about this, too, in the coming weeks and days. All right, I hope everybody else has a great time. I've got a birthday lunch to get to. So, I'm going to go eat some fried food. Have a great day, guys. Thank you. Thanks, Nick.