Title: Metropolitan Planning Organization of Johnson County July 15, 2026
Published: 2026-07-16 10:27:03
Video ID: gaKWsnV5tho

[clears throat] All right, I'd like to call this meeting to order. This is the Wednesday, July 15, 2026 meeting of the Metropolitan Planning Organization of Johnson County Urban Area Policy Board. Uh, welcome everybody. Uh, thank you to North Liberty for hosting. Uh, let's start out with, uh, recognizing alternates. >> Yeah, thanks everyone. Uh, again, thanks for coming. Kent Rston, executive director. Uh we've got four, if I'm counting correctly, uh alternates tonight. We have Brian Liebold for Mayor Chris Hoffman of North Liberty. Uh Kelly Grace for Laura Bergus of Iowa City. Chris O'Brien uh for Josh Mo of Iowa City. And Troy Kelsey for Louise from Mayor of University Heights. And I think that is it. >> Thank you, Kent. Um just a point of privilege from the chair. I would urge folks uh especially in the summer, attendance isn't always what it could be. Remember, it's up to you to get your own um your own replacement. So, please spread the word to our folks who aren't here to remind them of that. >> Appreciate that. >> Uh next is consider approval of meeting minutes. [music] I'd entertain a motion. >> So, moved. [laughter] >> Second. >> Okay, it's been moved and seconded. Uh any discussion? All those in favor respond with I. >> I. >> Opposed. [clears throat] Same sign. Motion carries. Uh next is to set the next board meeting date, time, and location, which is tentatively September 9th. >> Yeah. So we've set that tentatively for September 9th. Um we usually don't meet in September. Uh we have one meeting uh in July, which we're at now, which we don't have a technical advisory committee meeting for. That's sort of our normal cadence. Um, we may not need that meeting, but because of our long range plan and some other things we're working on, uh, we're just hoping you can get on your calendars and like usual, I'll send out a save the date a month ahead and then you'll get the full meeting packet a week ahead of time, uh, should we need it. >> And who's set to host that? >> Uh, that is also to be determined. Okay. >> Yeah. >> Thank you. >> Any questions for Kent on that? All right. Seeing none, uh, next up is public discussion of any item not on the agenda. Is there anyone in the public who has anything for this board? Anyone in the public? Anyone in the public? Last call. Okay, moving on to transportation planning. Item 3A is public hearing and consideration of a resolution adopting a revised MOJC public participation plan. I will open the public hearing and ask for a staff report. Thanks, Rod. Uh, good afternoon. Hannah Neil, associate transportation planner. At your May meeting, I provided anformational update on the MPJC public participation plan or PPP. And today, we will be asking for approval of this plan. [clears throat] As a reminder, a public participation plan is a document designed to formalize the public input process used by NPOS's in their planning processes. Each major planning document developed by MOJC has specific requirements for public input which vary depending on the governing body require requiring the work. MOJC last adopted a PPP in 2022 and federal guidelines recommend that a plan be updated every 5 years. So that's why we're doing this now. The PPP is consistent with federal and state regulations and stipulates minimum requirements per for providing residents and stakeholders with reasonable opportunity for input in the MPJC planning process. The plan formalizing formalizes the planning policies used by MOJC and encourages public participation and communication with member communities. This plan outlines the MOJC public input process, including outreach strategies, outlets to notify the public, the MOJC list of public input organizations, and procedural notices and processes for our public participation plan. This document, the long range transportation plan, which Maline will talk about later, the transportation improvement program, which I'll be talking about in the next item, the passenger transportation plan, and the transportation planning work program. As required by the adopted plan, a 45-day public notice for public input was published and no public comment was received. This PPP is similar to the previous plan and no substantive changes have been made. So today staff is requesting approval of the MPJC public participation plan. And I will add as a final note, uh public participation is kind of a struggle across the board. So it's not uncommon for us to not have received any public comment um on this plan. Any questions for Hannah? >> Yeah, we we talked about this I think at the last meeting where Hannah uh sort of primed the pump for this item. And you know, like Hannah said, we we struggle to get public participation on I would say the bulk of our work products. Uh no surprise to you all being elected officials and in government. Um it's usually not until we've really pinned down a certain street reconstruction project or something where of course people get a little more excited and a little more interested. um and then involved uh but for things like our long-range plan um which is agenda item uh later on the agenda tonight and some of those things we just we struggle to get a lot of good public and uh public participation. So um important we have this and appreciate your attention to it this evening. >> Well, this is a public hearing. Is there anyone in the public who'd like to speak to this? Anyone in the public who'd like to speak to this final call? Anybody? >> I'm in the public. I'm just holding till I hear something and I I'll comment if you want to >> as it comes around. [snorts] >> Well, this is this is the opportunity you have. We're about to close the public hearing. So, if you'd like to say something, please come on up. >> All right. Hi, I'm Claire. >> Could Would you mind coming up to the microphone? >> Hi. [clears throat] I'm here. I don't necessarily know exactly what to expect being here, but um I think it would be very nice if our buses were better connected, especially more bus coverage for Northern Coralville and on weekends. Forever Green Road is very congested outside of St. Thomas Moore on Sundays is very congested. I feel like if if more people were in the same vehicle on 12th Avenue and Forever Green Road and in that general area, I would personally take that transport and um I think many people would and it would just clean up the street a lot better. I feel that Northern Coralville is extremely underutilized when it comes to public transport considering how much commerce and residential it has. >> Would you mind? I'm sorry. I want to make sure staff got your name. Would you mind giving your name again? >> Claire Hernandez. >> Thank you. Are there any other comments for the public hearing? Any other comments? Final call for public comments. Okay, I'm going to close the public hearing and I would entertain a motion. >> I make a motion [snorts] to approve the resolution. He'll say second. >> Okay. Uh it's been moved and seconded. Any discussion? >> Okay. Hearing none. All those in favor respond with I. I. >> And oppose. Same sign. >> Motion carries. Okay. Okay, next we move on to uh item 3B on our agenda, and that is a public hearing and consideration of resolutions of adoption and certification for the fiscal year 2027 to 2030 MOJC transportation improvement program. So, I will open the public hearing and ask for a staff report. >> Thanks, Rod. Um Hannah Neil, associate transportation planner. Uh this is our annual transportation improvement program or tip. This TIP covers the 4-year period of FY27 to 30. The TIP includes all federally funded transportation projects for road and transit and includes state and local projects. Not all projects listed in the TIP will get funded, but in order to be funded, they must be in this document. At your May meeting, you approved the draft tip project list. This included the transit aortionment, which you approved at your January meeting. MOJC received just over $5 million in FY25 FTA section 5307 operating assistance funds for transit. These funds were aortioned to the three transit agencies using a fixed percentage-based allocation based on a historic average. As you will recall, this board awards surface transportation block grant or STBG, transportation alternative program or TAP, and carbon reduction program or CRP funds every 2 years. At your March 2025 meeting, you awarded a total of 10.4 million in STBG funds, 2.1 million in TAP funds, and 3.1 million in CRP funds to to a total of nine projects. Corville was awarded funding for three projects. Iowa City, one project, North Liberty, three projects, University Heights, one project, and the University of Iowa was awarded funding for one project. At your last board meeting, the board requested a summary of the projects that have received MOJC funding by community. Sorry, guys. Uh the handout in your packet provides a breakdown of projects by community along with details about the type of funds awarded and the fiscal year in which those funds were are programmed. All projects under contract with the DOT are removed from the TIP. So once they're let out of the TIP stg and CRP projects not completed in FY26 were automatically rolled over to FY27. All DOT projects in our planning area are also included in the TIP and all local projects will continue to be programmed and completed according to federal guidelines as they have in the past. for the transit portion of the tip. The transit portion includes operating funding and projects from the transit program of projects which you saw at your March meeting and it mainly includes buses equipment replacement as well as facilities funding for all three transit facility or transit agencies and buses are usually [clears throat] replaced using 85% federal funding. Um Corville included 20 or I'm sorry 16 buses seven which seven of which are replacement. Iowa City has included 25 buses, all of which are replacement buses, and CAM bus has included 24 uh buses, all of which are replacement buses. In addition to the project lists, the TIP also includes project status reports. It identifies regionally significant projects. the MO's public input process, kind of like what I just talked about in the PPP, the MO's project selection procedures used for STBG, TAP, and CRP projects, including the scoring criteria, a fiscal constraint review of the TIP projects, a financial analysis of transit projects, and statements regarding performance-based planning measures for highway safety, pavement and bridge, freight reliability, transit asset management, and transit safety. The draft FY27 to30 tip was submitted to the Iowa DOT review for review. The MO also published a public hearing notice in the Gazette and Press Citizen uh 30 days in advance of this meeting today. All agencies on the MO's public input list were contacted and public notice posters were placed on all fixed route buses regarding today's meeting. All of these things are also outlined in the PPP. Uh we received non-substantive comments from the DOT which were incorporated into the final draft and we did not receive any public comment on this TIP. The transportation technical advisory committee unanimously recommended approval of the draft tip at their May meeting and this board approved the draft tip at your May meeting. So today we are requesting approval of the final FY27 to30 TIP and we will submit the final TIP to the Iowa DOT, FHWA and FTA upon approval. I'm happy to answer any questions. >> So So this is one that I commented on uh at your last meeting. I know there's some new faces in the room and and uh some of you may not have been present, but as Hannah mentioned, you know, this is one of these federally required documents we have to put together. Uh, as you can imagine, uh, Hannah did a nice job, uh, reporting on it, they're a little dry, right? Um, but what I had mentioned at your last meeting that is exciting and not so dry is that aside from the transit funds uh, and the transit assets that are represented in the TIP, uh, is this uh, project funding by community that you would all ask for, and that's as Hannah mentioned in your packet. Um, and at your last meeting, I'd mentioned that we've got about $37 million just in no funds uh programmed in the next four years. So, that's not including the DOT infrastructure funds, uh not including any of the maintenance funds that the DOT uh provides to us, but just sheer infrastructure funds. Uh there's about 37 million, a little over 37 million uh programmed in the next four years. So assuming that your staffs and your engineers can get those projects let um get bids and and let and constructed, uh things should be looking uh quite a bit different in the next four years just with the the funding that is through the no. So and just a reminder um we go through that funding process every two years and we'll go through that funding process again uh starting this fall. So, you'll all get a chance to look at a whole new set of projects um and a new set of funding that again then we'll program and bring back to you this time next year uh for final approval. And as Hannah mentioned, happy to answer any questions you have about the projects, about the funding, uh about what's in the tip. >> Okay, hearing no questions. Uh this is a public hearing. Is there anyone in the public who'd like to speak to anything about this plan? Anybody in the public? Anybody in the public? Final call. Okay. Hearing none, I'm going to close the public hearing and I would entertain a motion. >> I moved we approve the tap 2027 [clears throat] to 2030 >> and second armson. >> Uh it's been moved and seconded. Discussion [clears throat] hearing none. Roll call. Uh all those in favor with I. >> I. >> All those opposed same sign. Okay. Motion carries. Uh next we are going to move on to uh another resolution. Uh this would be certifying the compliance with the federal requirements. Can I get a motion? >> So moved. >> Wine. >> Second. >> Moved and seconded. Uh any discussion on this? Uh hearing none. All those in favor respond with I. >> I. >> Oppose. Same sign. >> Motion carries. Okay, we're moving on. We are at item C on our agenda and that is an update on the MOJC long range transportation plan revision process. [clears throat] >> Hi, good afternoon. Maline Stone, associate transportation planner and let me sorry one second. >> [snorts] >> It's usually the >> trying to put it in presentation mode. >> Yeah, the um it's been the button has been moved, I think. Oh, there it is. >> I was going to say I think it's Yep. >> Yeah, perfect. Oops. There we go. Okay, perfect. [snorts] Hi. Yeah, like I said, Maline Stone, associate transportation planner, here to provide an update to our long-range transportation plan. Um, as a reminder, the long-range transportation plan is a required document for all urbanized areas to complete to receive funding, and the plan must be updated every 5 years. At your last meeting, the policy board reviewed the background and regional context chapters of the plan. And since then, MO staff have been uh have continued drafting chapters and analyzing survey data data. we will be showing uh more chapters of the plan to you this fall. So uh today I have a presentation about uh the chapter that you had received in your agenda packet which is our guiding principles chapter. So um the first uh guiding principle that we have here is economic opportunity supporting growth innovation job production and productivity. When applying economic opportunity, it's important to consider improving transportation access to employment, education, and other businesses. The average commute time, um, as you can see in this graph right here, is lower than in the metro than the rest of the state. However, this travel time has increased by an average of over a minute in the last 5 years. So, uh, something for us to consider. And, uh, to improve this, we do have some strategies. Um and some examples that have happened currently are the the widening of 380 to improve connectivity to Cedar Rapids. Um and then the I I8380 interchange which was completed a few years ago and then the I81st Avenue uh exit. Um and then uh yeah just to improve connectivity in the area and then some other strategies that we have for economic opportunity are uh performing transportation engineering evaluations to maximize efficiency, expand multimodal access to employment areas and focus transportation investments on the areas of greatest need. [snorts] And then uh kind of going in tandem with economic opportunity is efficiency. So uh building a well-connected transportation network with coordinated land use patterns to reduce travel demand and delay and vehicle miles traveled. This uh further supports economic opportunity by uh providing safe easy access to um certain opportunities in land uses. Um overall as um and you can see our performance measures graph. Uh our trends are looking pretty optimistic as it um relates to vehicle miles traveled and travel time reliability. And uh some other strategies that we're using to improve um to further improve efficiency is providing uh level of service assessments and areas with uh poorer level of service ratings uh do tend to get more points um when it comes to funding allocation. and uh facilitate review of tra travel signal timings annually. Encourage land use patterns that support efficient movement and um this includes mixed use uh infield development and multif family development and [snorts] monitor and uh prepare for advancements in tech and transportation technologies as that's ever improving. [snorts] In addition to this, we have choice offer accessible and affordable multimodal transportation options. Advancing choice allows people to choose the transportation option that works best for them. However, many do not have the opportunity of choice and by exting transportation, everybody in the metro benefits. An example of this would be the connectivity to North Liberty. Uh the hospital, the new hospital in North Liberty does provide significant opportunities for employment and healthcare. However, access is a barrier for many. On our long-range transportation plan general survey, we did receive an overwhelming desire for increased transportation options to North Liberty due to the hospital and Liberty High. And um to kind of combat this, there are member communities and organizations that are filling this gap. Uh, an example of this is 380 that does provide access to North Liberty from Cedar Rapids. North Liberty just launched their um commute bus which um is open to the public and that does have a stop that um that twice a day does stop at the hospital and then um Canvas also does serve an on demand service that is free and open to the public uh to access the hospital as well. So other key strategies that we have for choice is exploring opportunities to expand public transit across the metro and enhance access to activity centers to ensure safe uh low low stress pedestrian and bicycle facilities and transit service. [snorts] Then the next guiding principle uh that we have here is environment uh preserve and protect our natural resources including water, land and air. Environment is important to consider uh when thinking about construction and the impact it has to the natural environment and then also once vehicles are on the road the air pollution and air quality that um also need to be addressed. Overall our performance measures are trending in the right direction which is a good sign. housing density. Um so more people are um taking up less space for housing and which is um creating a denser environment that will um lead to less travel hopefully. Um vehicle mile miles traveled has decreased significantly as well over the last 5 years and that equals to over 24 million miles in the last 5 years from the last plan. And then um key environment strategies that we have are avoiding impacts to environmentally sensitive areas such as woodlands and wetlands. Support increased use of EVs and improve access to charging infrastructure. And as you can see on the performance measures as well, the number of EV charging stations in the metro has increased significantly. and encourage and support land use plans and policies to enhance overall transportation efficiency including compact and mixeduse development. [snorts] And then next uh we have equity provide mobility and access for all people and all neighborhoods in transportation. This means reducing barriers to participation in community activities and eliminating obstacles to access employment and housing. in the spring. Um, some of the things that the NO has done is release surveys to uh specifically um underrepresented uh populations uh such as high school students and middle school students to understand their transportation needs. And then we had also attempted to obtain more feed feedback from people whom driving is not an option. Um and so um equity in our complete streets policy which is um an MO policy that all travel modes must be considered in the design of streets in order to receive federal funding. And um our SS4A which I'll talk about a little bit and that Sarah Walls has also um mentioned a few times is um their their policy in the SS4A which is when awarding grants equity must be considered whether a project ensures or will ensure equitable investment in the safety needs of underserved communities in preventing transportation related fatalities and injuries. Some other strategies to highlight with equity are ensuring a range of affordable transportation options for all people and neighborhoods. Prioritize the expansion and improvement of the sidewalk and multi-use trail network, especially for multifamily or mixeduse development, and continue to support the Johnson County Mobility Coordinator. And then next we have quality of life, enhance livability by creating vi vibrant and appealing places that serve residents throughout their lives. Uh, one part of transportation is of course the need to get places. However, there are other important considerations such as recreation and active transportation which can significantly improve mental and physical health and connect people with their communities. And we had that statistic there that 80 86% of people on our trail survey uh mentioned that the trails make them feel more connected to their neighborhood. And um as we can see on the performance measures as well, that's also increasing in a positive direction. So the percentage of metro households that are within a/4 mile of a trail is also increased. Um so uh some strategies that we have towards quality of life are again just continuing to advance that and closing the gaps in the sidewalk and trail network and then uh plan for grade separating c separated crossings and high volume roadways to reduce stress for vulnerable users. [snorts] And then kind of um in tandem with quality of life, we have health. Support and advance healthy and active lifestyles. Transportation can be used um to promote and enhance healthy and active lifestyles through access to trails and sidewalks as well as ensuring safe, accessible means to essential services like healthcare and grocery. And then we also have that statistic right there um that 57% of respondents on the trail survey indicated exercise was their primary use for the trails. And then we have that quote that um was received on the survey as well that um it uh that the trails are providing um opportunities for um exercise that previously um might not have been there. And then um some strategies to highlight for health are to prioritize infrastructure for walking and bic bicycling to ensure residents have opportunities to incorporate physical activity in their daily routines. remove barriers to access uh by constructing curb ramps, accessible sidewalks, bus stops, signage, and accessible routes throughout the transportation network and work collaboratively to promote safe transportation through public education efforts. [snorts] And then uh next we have system preservation. So when it comes to system preservation, um maintaining existing facilities in good and reliable condition, it's crucial to remain cost-effective for transportation projects, there is a considerable shortfall between the money needed and the money received for transportation improvement. And um here's kind of an example as to why uh system preservation is um important in that area. This is a statistic I got from the or a number I got from the DOT that shows the the difference in cost between maintenance and reconstruction. In order to help prioritize system preservation during funding allocation, more points are awarded to projects that are geared towards rehabilitation as opposed to new construction. >> [snorts] >> And then some other strategies that we have to highlight include using the pavement condition index uh data to focus investment on those roadways classified as being in poor condition and effectively manage and maximize existing transportation assets by prioritizing rehabilitation and replacement of aging infrastructure over system expansion when possible. [snorts] And then finally uh we have safety. Uh enhance the safety of all users through a well-designed and maintained transportation network. Safety of all users is a top priority in transportation planning as they can lead to serious injuries or even be fatal. And safety is a top priority for the no as projects uh with a documented safety concern can obtain um additional points when it comes to funding allocation. the um safe streets for all grant which um like I mentioned Sarah has uh presented on previously is a great tool for us to utilize uh to further understand safety concerns and continue to make it a priority. And um some strategies to highlight is that um for for safety is assisting the policy board in evaluating safety considerations during the grant funding process. Assist NO entities in identifying and applying for safety related grants and continue to uh continue to provide transportation engineering engineering services upon request to member entities. So that's another number I have that we've completed over a 100 traffic counts in the last five years based on the request of member entities um and then we're able to use those numbers uh with uh federal guidelines to help make informed decisions about um safety. So um I'm happy to answer any questions or go back to any slides if anybody has. So, so I mentioned at every meeting, you know, the long-range plan that Maline's describing is [snorts] a requirement of ours like most things we do every 5 years. Um, we do all of the long range plan as we always have in house. Uh, so this is just a really heavy lift for us. Again, something we have to do every 5 years. Um, Meline mentioned it, but at your last meeting, you know, we've been bringing bits and pieces to you and trying to kind of hammer you over the head with it because we only meet every few months to remind you what we've done and then sort of where we're going. Uh Meline mentioned at your May meeting we brought you the background and regional context chapters. Um tonight we're bringing you the guiding principles which obviously kind of frames up the rest of the plan which will end up being several hundred pages long. And then later either in September as we talked about earlier if we need the meeting um we'll be bringing you to the different modal chapters. So the bike and ped chapters uh we'll bring uh information about our traffic model um which we run in-house and which we work with the DOT to actually um create and then we produce it uh inhouse as well and then we're able to to uh model traffic patterns uh and future traffic patterns for your different um needs for your communities. So again, it's a big lift for us. Um, and our plan is to bring you all the different modal chapters uh again either in September or November. And then after that, we'll really be off to the races with um uh more public input. And then we'll have the entire plan uh ready and drafted uh by the first of the year. So um we've been working hard at it and like Meline says, happy to answer any questions about the guiding principles we talked about tonight. about half of the guiding principles and the metrics. They're a little bit hard to see on the screen um but were included in your packet. About half of those metrics are required uh for us to follow. Um and about the other half or so are created uh inhouse and then things that uh this board and then previous boards have wanted to use and happy to answer your questions you might have. Uh, I had one. Um, just curious actually, uh, because I don't know what the other municipalities or governments uh, have going on, but I know Iowa City is doing a comprehensive plan uh, process right now. And I know this is something that you have to do by a certain time, but I was wondering uh if that's something that MO and like Iowa City for instance, like do you work together when it comes to your comprehensive plan because land use is like I think essential like you could Yeah, that's my question. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, we definitely do. And in fact, um as many of your comprehensive plans probably are, you're not so much on a schedule, right? Some communities update their comp plan every five years, some every 10, and some haven't in a long time. Um, but this year, we're lucky that Iowa City's comprehensive plan on the NPO's long range plan overlap. So, we're actually working uh with your staffs to make sure that uh the information is is correct and in terms of land use and we uh actually met with um Iowa City's urban well actually uh North Liberty, Corville and Tiffen's urban planners uh Monday to review land use uh and land use patterns for our traffic model because those actually get inputed into our traffic model. So, um the long answer there is yes, we definitely are working with uh all your staffs Iowa cities particularly since your comp plan um is being created right now. Cool. >> Great question. >> Yeah, I was also curious about um the slide when it came to u I think this was under health the [clears throat] >> just curious about a number if that was just a survey number or um about the uh the food environment index. Um I just thought that was a good trend, but I was just curious about what those numbers necessarily represent. >> Yeah, that's a good question. So the food environment index is uh one that we got through the food environment source uh through a nonprofit that does analyze this and it takes into consideration um income and [clears throat] uh how many grocery stores what the grocery stores are offering and essentially access. So are people able to use multimodal transportation to walk or um take the bus to um to get to those to get to grocery stores and and that. So, >> okay. I thought that would be cool information to have. >> Yeah. Right. And those grocery stores have to serve a certain percentage of healthy foods. Is that right? Correct. >> There's some there's a metric that they use. Yeah. >> Mhm. Cool. >> Thank you. >> Gas stations, for instance, would not Most gas stations, I should say, would not um apply. >> Does Trader Joe's count? >> Yes. >> Yeah. >> Trader Joe's would. >> Yes. Yes. [clears throat] >> Good. >> It's a certain percentage of essentially um how many fresh items that they're serving. So, um yeah, Trader Joe's would be would be included in that and a lot of um specific um like cultural grocery stores and everything are also included because of of what they're offering as well. >> And [snorts] the the one thing we already talked a little bit about the the funding that comes through the MO that that you all will uh well, excuse me, we've already talked about the 37 million or so funds that are programmed through our TIP we talked about tonight. Um and then I mentioned that this fall we'll start the new process for the competitive grant applications. Um one of the things we'll bring you uh for that is our scoring criteria um that you all approve uh before we get into that. And the scoring criteria that we intend to use will have uh a scoring criteria for this very thing too. So if your project is within a certain uh distance of a grocery store for instance or provides direct access to a grocery store, your project would receive more points. Yep. So, we try and align our scoring criteria with our long-range plan, uh, since the long-range plan also has projects in it. Um, and for you to receive funding for the projects that we'll actually talk about this fall, they also have to be in the long range plan. So, there's this kind of layering effect of these um, all these different work products that we have. Out of curiosity, looking at the um the last slide with the fatalities and injuries, any thoughts on u uh what the increase in the speed limit on rural highways might do to that or will that be something that that we'll be tracking um to see if there is any difference? >> That is def that's a great question. Uh that is something we'll be tracking and something the DOT will be tracking as well. Um, I actually had a uh MO director's meeting um in AS about a month or so ago and the [clears throat] DOT director Scott Marlor actually gave a presentation at that meeting and said that they had registered their uh uh they had registered against that 60 mph uh speed limit. So even Iowa Department of Transportation thought that was not a very good idea that >> legislation passed anyway and and now we we we deal with what comes from it. I mean, it won't be a big deal within city limits, but uh our people do travel outside of the city, >> right? And in fact, uh just a personal account, I actually drove north of Mount Vernon over the Fourth of July weekend, so that was uh on the 4th of July. The law went into effect officially July 1, and they had already changed the speed limit to 60 mph. >> I saw that too. I was at Guttenberg the other day. So, >> yep. Yep. So, some of the counties are rolling it out pretty quick. Um some will be a little slower to get to it, I think, but yeah. So, we will be tracking it. Uh we're not excited about it either, but it is what we all have to deal with. >> Thanks. >> Yep. >> I had one more thing. I'm so sorry. Um uh given the grant that we uh um Iowa City and the university got in regards to the Burlington Street Bridge, was that like >> a opening for uh room for the MO or where does the trade-off come from there? or does that like open things up for y'all, make it easier for you or >> So the the build grant that Iowa City received uh what was it now a few weeks ago it must have been um 23 million and change I think somewhere between 23 and 24 million for the Burlington Street Bridge project. Uh that is a federal grant that really doesn't affect uh so much what happens inside the MO. Um that grant for 23 24 million whatever it was uh is separate and aside from the MO. it has to be documented in our TIP. So the next So sometime this year you can we can anticipate an amendment to the TIP that you all just approved in the last uh agenda item. But that's all to say that just has to be included in our TIP and that shows where it's programmed in the appropriate years. Um this MO has also provided uh almost 17 I think it's about $17 million in our MO funds specifically for that project as well. So come. So I guess the the long answer again is they're complimentary. >> Okay. >> Yep. One doesn't take away from the other. They're just complimentary. Um so we've got the build grant now, the 17 or so million that you've all approved for the Burlington Street Bridge project. Uh and I suspect that Iowa City may even ask for more money this next round. Competitive. Uh but if they need more, they may even ask for another round of funding given the size of the project. That's not uncommon. >> Thank you. >> Yeah, it's a good question. And those federal grants are exciting uh because you can use um state uh match as well. So you can so sometimes you can use our funds to even match federal funds which is nice. >> Okay. >> Yeah, it's a great question. >> Any other questions about the long range plan in general about what Meline's provided for you all tonight? Otherwise, we'll just keep keep bringing more to you and bits and pieces so we don't hit you over the head with the entire thing uh come January 1. >> Cool. >> All right, let's uh move on then. Thank you, Maline. Let's move on to other business. Anything from anyone other business? I [clears throat] just mentioned on in in line with the speed limits going up in the counties that Coryville voted last night to lower the speed limit [clears throat] on Highway 6 west of Lowe's to um I380. >> That's good. Oh, so the one the one thing we know uh in transportation planning is the speed differential is really what causes the biggest problems. So, uh, and to the to your comment about the 60 mph speed limit, you know, with tractors and things on our roadways that might only be going 20 or 30 mph, it's that speed differential that usually really causes the trouble. So, on freeways, you know, 70 mph is okay. We're all traveling about the same speed, but on some of these uh county and state highways where you anticipate different types of vehicles and that sort of thing, that's really the the biggest concern and that's where things get a little get a little bit dangerous. >> What was the arguments for it? Was it just some type of sloppy list? Like I >> Yeah, you know, I think I probably know about what you all know that what I read in the paper. Um what uh the DOT director said at that last meeting that I that I referenced was that uh I think the the legislation had heard from their constituents and this is something that been on their minds for a long time and they were able to get it pushed through this time. >> Okay. >> Yeah, that's really all I all I know about it. Any other business from anyone? Okay. Uh, hearing none. Thank you everybody and we're adjourned. >> Thanks everyone. And I appreciate it.