Title: Eye on North Liberty: The New Hy-Vee Amphitheater Events Schedule
Published: 2026-05-05 13:51:05
Video ID: oesWcPLcOpM

I'm at at North Liberty Centennial Park, home of the newest regional entertainment destination, Hy-Vee Amphitheater. I am so excited to show off this space, and we're very excited to start welcoming the community to this new outdoor stage. We have a slew of free and ticketed events on the docket. Here's what's coming. We are going to kick all this off with a free community celebration with a Port Tornadoes free concert on Friday, May 22nd. That's the kickoff of your Memorial Day weekend. We'll have food vendors, beverages. It's really going to be a party for you to come check out this new venue for the first time. The week after that, we have a ticketed event. It's a partnership with Orchestra Iowa called A Night at the Movies. And A Night at the Movies is celebrating the music of composer John Williams. It's music from Star Wars, Jurassic Park, Harry Potter, E.T., Indiana Jones, and more. So, this ticketed event, you come, you bring your lawn chair, your blanket, and enjoy a night with music from the orchestra. The next thing on the stage is Ballet Des Moines. It's on Saturday, June 6th. So, Ballet Des Moines is traveling throughout the state on their summer tour. We are their stop here in Johnson County, and it is a free night to enjoy professional ballet performances, and it's going to be opened by our local dance studio, Debut Dance. This will be a chance to come interact with some nonprofits and organizations on the lawn, and then check out the free show. Next, we're going to kick off the 4th of July weekend on Thursday, July 2nd with an event we're calling Fanfare and Flight. It's going to be an hour and a half free concert from the Iowa Brass Band here on the stage, followed by a 15-minute aerial performance from 150 choreographed drones. On July 11th, Blues & BBQ is back. We had to take the year off, we were building the venue, but we are so excited to bring our summer tradition of music, blues, barbecue, and fun back for that Saturday all-day festival. Free admission, free parking, free kids fun inflatables and activities of the organizations. We'll have 14 barbecue vendors and other food serving up treats for you to buy. We have our Iowa Craft Beer Tent coming back with all the cold pours you might need on the summer night, and of course, 12 hours of live free music. So, you won't want to miss Blues & BBQ on July 11th. On Saturday, July 26th, we have Elemental Circus. This is an event that is kind of tying into the elements of Earth, Wind, Fire, and Water, but is an acrobatic show on the stage, free, hour-long, family-friendly entertainment. Then later that week, on Thursday, August 6th, we're doing Piano in the Park. This is a free dueling piano band with a drummer. They'll of course play songs that you'll enjoy to get up and dance to, but they also will be taking your requests. And then, rounding out that weekend on Sunday, August 9th, is going to be Buckets & Boards. Another free afternoon here on a Sunday. Buckets & Boards is a traveling drum percussion duo. It's got comedy, acrobatics as well. It of course has drumming on all types of things, but this group has a residency in Branson, Missouri. They travel along with the Disney Cruise Lines. So, you won't want to miss this show routing through. On September 11th, we're inviting all of the Swifties to Centennial Park. We have a ticketed tribute show. Are you ready for it? It's a Taylor Swift tribute. They're going to be here covering all the iconic eras. It's going to be something that all ages are going to want to come sing and dance to going into the weekend. All the details about like, when does the lawn open? What food trucks are going to be there? Will alcohol be there or not? How does parking work? Is all going to be answered in the details of each specific event. So, you want to visit northlibertyiowa.org and click the links right from the home page that take you to the details that will be released about a month ahead of each event. What you need to know before you come. We really are looking forward to debuting this space, and we look forward to all the possibilities that are here in the future. Not even everything's been announced from what I've shared, so keep an eye out for updates, but we really hope you enjoy this new venue. We're just a mile and a half off of 380, and we look forward to welcoming people back to Centennial Park and a lot of visitors for the first time.