Title: North Liberty City Council Meeting on May 12, 2026
Published: 2026-05-13 18:28:52
Video ID: 9TK3u_gE_ts

We'll call the meeting of uh Tuesday, May 12, 2026, uh North Liberty City Council to order. Can we have a roll call, please? >> Here, Libold >> here. >> Park >> here. >> Smith >> here. >> Went >> here. Uh there's no changes to the agenda. So I would entertain a motion for approval of that. So moved. >> Second. >> Any other questions? All in favor say I. >> I. >> Anyone opposed? My motion passes. Moving down to uh the consent agenda. Anyone have any issues with anything on there before we then I'd entertain a motion for that? I'll move that, Brian. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Any discussion? >> All in favor say I. I. >> Anyone opposed? >> All right, moving down to item number five, which is public comment. Time for members of the public to talk about anything that's uh not having a public comment section on the agenda. So, anyone like to come up at this time? Seeing uh none, we will move down to uh the engineer report. >> Thank you. Uh just one update tonight on Forever Green Road and Jasper construction. Um based on last week's construction meeting, I just wanted to give you an update. The contractor will start paving some temporary roadways um at the end of the month, end of May, beginning of June. uh as you know maybe if you've been out there all the work's sort of been north on Jasper at the moment utilities and grading but um starting in June they will get that temporary paving in and we'll start to see um vehicles being detourred kind of around the intersection they'll start working on the north west northeast quadrant of that roundabout and then once that starts it'll just kind of be constant uh detour pavement and as they move around that quadrant of the roundabout through the rest of the summer and um I think the the substantial completion goes through fall. So, uh it's been pretty easy at the moment, but uh coming up next month, it'll start to get a little more a little more dicey, a little more detours and uh activity. So, that's the plan uh going forward in that project. So, there's any other questions on >> Just had one quick question. Did you know uh I saw something about the DOT and the ramp at Pen Street? >> I do. I am not on that. >> Okay. So, >> I I can look into it. Do you >> Yeah, we can I hate to speak right now. I saw the same thing and it's they're ahead of schedule. I know that. So, the closings are going to happen sooner, but we can get specifics for you. >> Yeah. The ramp closure. >> Yeah. I didn't remember the dates and stuff. So, but it seemed like it maybe it's pretty soon. >> Yeah. I think the f I think the first closure will happen in early June. >> Okay. So, >> but we'll I say that I I will ask you to let us >> bring back the accurate most accurate information. >> Uh any uh questions for the our engineer. >> All right. Moving to the next item, city administrator report. >> Okay. Thanks. I have three things for you this evening. Uh first uh this Friday we'll be releasing the request for qualifications for the construction manager at risk process of the firehouse project. As you'll recall, this project not only includes the the demolition of and reconstruction of a new firehouse. It also uh will include expansions at water uh at at water and uh at parks and their maintenance shops to help us uh colllocate the fire department while the uh construction of their facility is going on. So a big project and uh we anticipate uh multiple qualified uh contractors to submit qualifications. Uh, as you know, we've are in the process of going through the bond sale with additional uh addition uh the 2026 bond sale uh with additional action slated for tonight. Uh, one of the things that Tracy and I will be doing uh next week is sitting in on a rating call with Moody's. We do this be uh before every sale and they uh we have good conversation with them and our finance uh financial advisor uh and then eventually they issue a rating uh before uh before the sale of the bond. So that happens next week. And then lastly, I would just mention that we're currently uh uh with the month of April past us, we're taking uh we're looking at all the data for our water and sewer utilities uh and looking at uh modeling those in terms of revenues and expenses so far this fiscal year. That'll help us um uh bring back a proposal to you for uh rate increases. uh that would would be by ordinance that would um potentially start uh the the ordinance reading the first reading would be uh at the next meeting uh in May. And this again, we've talked about this, but that we have some pretty significant projects coming up in both water and wastewater utilities, capital projects. Uh and uh we'll talk about that a little bit more uh when those ordinances are in front of you. Uh but we're working again with our internal team and our our financial consultant uh to put together the best data and projections uh in front of you uh for the next meeting. That's what I have uh tonight. Mayor uh Mayor Prom, unless there are any questions. >> Any questions? >> Ryan, when you're going over financials um with the billing, are there exclusions to high and low years? So high high usage years. I know the last few years we've been drought so probably high usage I would guess and then springs like now when we're not drought would be lower I mean fluctuations >> we are evaluating that and we are seeing that in fact I just had a meeting this afternoon we we won't be hitting our we most likely won't hit our revenue uh projection for this year because there's significantly lower water usage despite our growth this rain has >> has uh stopped a lot of people from using the sprinkler. Uh which is okay from a a a um water usage standpoint, but it does impact revenues then. So, we are looking at that and uh we'll have we'll be able to uh talk about that information with you when when you see the the full spreadsheet. >> Okay. Thank you. Now, moving on to mayor report. Uh we have a couple of proclamations uh to today and whoops. See if we can get it is sunny up here. Starting uh with older American month prop proclamation. Uh whereas North Liberty is home to a thriving active community of older adults who deserve a recognition for their contributions and sacrifices to ensure a better life for future generations. And whereas we are committed to helping all individuals live longer, healthier lives in North Liberty and have made it a priority that the city facilities, sidewalks, parks, and other public spaces are accessible to people of all abilities. the residents of any age and families as a whole can enjoy North Liberty events and amenities together. And whereas the Johnson County area offers many social service resources and safety nets for older adults, including transportation for independence, lifelong learning, nourishment, inhome support, and public safety, while living approximate to an excellent medical care provider network and access to housing for stages of life. So our community of older adults with diverse interests, needs, and abilities can live and thrive. And whereas North Liberty staff cultivate opportunities for older adult adults to gather and socialize uh for exercise at the North Liberty Community Center during regularly scheduled activities and special events such as this fall's Johnson County Healthy Aging Fair on Wednesday, September 16th. And whereas in recognition of Memorial Day and in appreciation of our members of the military who gave the ultimate sacrifice, the city is hosting a free Civil War history presentation in performer performance by former Iowa Assistant Attorney General Pete Grady titled Unconditional Surrender, a visit with Ulissiz Sgrant at the Hi Center at Centennial Park on Friday, May 29 at noon. And now therefore be it proclaimed that I, Brian Wson, Mayor Prom of the city of North Liberty, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2026 as older Americans month in the city of North Liberty, Iowa, and urge every resident to take time to celebrate older adults and the people who serve and support them as powerful and vital individuals who greatly contribute to the community. So, >> you want to come up and say a few words? >> Thank you, Mayor Prom Wson. Um, Jeff Kellbach. I'm with the Johnson County Liveable Community for Successful Aging Policy Board is a mouthful, so we call it JCLC. Um, this year's theme, Champion Your Health, focuses on prevention, wellness, personal responsibility as cornerstones of healthy aging. It encourages taking an active role in managing your own health, advocating for yourself, acce access accessing preventative care, and making informed decisions that support independence. We're pleased that North Liberty is joining us in highlighting the importance of individuals championing their health. I just wanted to point out real quick as a as a resident of North Liberty, um very proud of the programming and and services that there are available to older adults in this community. I know that hasn't always been the case. Um, Angela McConville has set up some really nice programming. The 55 plus programs that have been going on for several, many, many years and have been continued on by Corey and and Shelley, they are just they're tremendous. I see people coming from other communities because it's it's so well done. Um, the North Liberty Transportation Assistance Program, boy, it has really helped out a lot of folks. Um, a lot of older adults that I have have uh worked with, folks that I don't work with. It's just been a huge um godsend to just really making sure people can get to appointments, getting to vital um places. And I just really want to say we have the healthy aging fair. It's going to be coming up again this year, September 16th, at the North Liberty Community Center. Um we did this last year at North Liberty Community Center. Um I'll say once again, Angela just she it's such a great facility as it is, but Nang Angela has just made it so much easier. um maps, figuring out how much space we have, just been so easy to work with. We've done this event for several years, and this was by far this last year was just awesome. Um just real quickly going to point out a couple other events. Um through livable community.org, you can find these things for our JCLC website. Um tomorrow, May 13th, there's a presentation um eat well simple nutrition strategies for healthy aging. That's going to be done by Susie Roberts, who's a dietitian with the Iowa State University Extension. That'll be 10 to 11:30 at the um Health and Human Services building, 855 South Deuke Street in room 203. And then next week there's an art talk with Amanda Lensing um artists and aging. That'll be at 10:30 via Zoom. All that stuff. Once again, livable community.org. They can find all that information. Um just once again, thank you all for all your help. And I will be looking to come out and talk with you guys. We have been wrapping up our communitywide survey and putting together an action plan and um look forward to presenting that to all of you and and giving some feedback of what we found out. >> Okay. Thank you. >> You like a photo? >> We will, but I don't know if we have some other people that want to talk real quick. So, >> sorry. It's Angela McConville, special uh projects coordinator for the city of North Liberty. And I did just want to mention Corey Brays again, our assistant adult librarian, who has taken on the 55 plus connections group and really grown it from a list serve of probably 50 emails that I had to thousands of people on her um newsletter that she sends weekly. So, I encourage you guys to sign up for that because there's something always going on in our community for the older adults. And I do have handouts because older folks like something that they can put on their fridge. And while I'm not quite 55 yet, I still go to some of these things. So, I'm gonna pass them around. >> Yep. >> You want to say a few words, sir? >> No, thank you. >> You want to be in the picture? >> Thank you. >> Thanks. These guys are >> what in a little bit. Great. Thank you so much. >> I'm getting closer. >> Uh my professional background is I gerontology. So >> and various uh right moving on to our next item which is a proclamation for Asian-American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Whereas Asian-American and Pacific Islander, which is AAPI, Heritage Month, is observed annually in May to recognize the history, culture, and contributions of Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States. And whereas AAPI communities represent a rich diversity of cultures, languages, and traditions and have contributed significantly to the economic, educational, cultural, and civic life of our nation and local communities. And whereas in the North Liberty area and the greater Iowa City region, AAPI residents, families, educators, and organizations contribute meaningfully to community life, fostering cross-cultural understanding. And whereas local organizations and community-based educational and cultural groups play an important role in advancing cultural understanding and engagement. And whereas AAPI Heritage Month provides an opportunity to promote inclusion, mutual respect, and appreciation of the diverse perspectives that strengthen our community. Now therefore, be it proclaimed that I, Brian Wson, mayor prom of the city of North Liberty, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2026 as Asian-American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in the city of North Liberty, Iowa, and encourage all residents to recognize and celebrate the contributions and cultural heritage of Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders. >> You want to come up? Thank you, Mayor Protein Waitson. And good evening, everyone. My name is Don Chai, founder of Midwest Chinese Academy here in I North Liberty. On behalf of Midwest Chinese Academy, our students, families, and community partners. Thank you to the city for recognizing Asian-American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. North Liberty has undergone a tremendous transformation, evolving from a small town into a rapidly growing and increasingly diverse community. While the local Asian population was very small in the 1990s, today we represent more than 4% of our city's residents. But the true story of North Liberty isn't found in statistics. It is found in real families, uh, growing friendships, and everyday moments of belonging. For example, in my four-year-old child's um preschool class of about 20 students, there are already three Chinese children. Every morning, the teacher warmly greets us with niha. It may seem like a very small gesture, but for immigrant families, moments like this mean a great deal. They tell us, "You are welcome here." At the Midwest Chinese Academy, we are honored to foster this same spirit. Whether through school year or our sum Chinese summer camp this June in the North Liberty Rec Center, we help local children and families build a cultural understanding through authentic conversations and community partnerships throughout Johnson County. In Chinese, we say thank you. And tonight, we sincerely thank you the city and this community for helping families from many backgrounds feel seen, valued, and connected. Thank you for >> another picture. She's like no one in the picture. The shuffle is a >> nice >> I'm sorry. I'm just I'm just uh >> me focused on >> All right, moving on down the agenda to uh council reports. So, um I have a few things, so I'll just kind of start and we can work our way uh down the line. So, uh first of all, I met some very nice North Liberty residents at the cystic fibrosis fundraiser walk on uh Saturday. So, we appreciate all the North Liberty who were there to support that. And after that, it was big rigs. And so, um, I, uh, got to see quite a bit of of that and, uh, really I was really amazed. Some of the staff were really engaged and having a great time talking to the public. Um, today is International Nurses Day and we have, you know, several hundreds and hundreds of nurses in our community. So, happy nurses day to them. It's also National Police Week. And so I'd like to just kind of give a shout out to our uh police department. And um and then the Johnson County Emergency Management uh building is in progress and they've pouring foundations. So it's going. So that's all I have. Um I as current board president of Better Together 2030 had uh the opportunity to go to the city of Tiffen. I want to thank uh Tiffen's mayor for uh inviting me and some of the staff uh to uh talk about our initiatives and pillars uh to uh some of his council members um as they take a look at uh joining our initiative. So, I want to thank Tiffen's mayor for that. I'll echo the uh uh police week and um give uh credit to the hardworking men and women of our now accredited uh North Liberty Police Department. Uh, I attended the Toast to Business Awards ceremony for uh, Greater IC. Um, remarkable rigs event. Uh, I love this event and so thanks everyone for putting it on and I thought it was really cool to see the Jaws of Life uh, in action on a car there and uh, hopefully, you know, some of that cool stuff and inspire some future recruits uh, to service. Uh, also still maybe hoping for the National Guard to have some fun with us on that event. And so if if anyone out there is listening from the National Guard and have a spare a spare helicopter, I'm sure the kids would, uh, would love to see that. >> Uh, and I'd also take the opportunity to thank Liberty High art teacher, uh, Miss Der, and her art class for helping us with our arts and culture, uh, program survey. we were lacking a little of of youth participation there and she uh stepped up to help us with that. So, we love having input from the youth here. So, the more the merrier as far as that goes. And then I would say on May 20th, uh there's a blood drive at Bulldogs in North Liberty uh for EMS week and so there'll be a fire truck there and EMS staff uh and it should be fun and for a good cause. So, that's what I have. Thank you. I'll go next. Uh Brian, just to to echo some of Paul's comments, I attended the toast to business. I just wanted to say congratulations to all the recipients of of those awards. Uh and thanks again to Greater Iowa City for hosting such a wonderful event. I attended the uh OS14 golf outing. Uh and I just wanted to say thank you to the Skellyy family and the OS14 board. U the the main purpose of that golf outing is to bring awareness to the importance of mental health. Um and so we can never have enough of those opportunities to to encourage folks um they need help to find it and uh just another great community event. So thanks to that. And then not quite nurses but also very important part of our community. Last week was teacher appreciation week. So, I want to make sure uh that we recognize those uh who have have taken on that responsibility to care for and teach all of our children uh whether they be pre-K all the way through high school. Um they play an important role and I just wanted to recognize their efforts. That's it for me. >> Thanks. >> Okay. So, I also attended the toast to business and it's really nice to see um greater Iowa City, you know, recognize the input that small businesses give to our communities and congratulations to all the businesses that were involved uh in that. Um, I went I attended a affordable housing bus tour through Johnson County which uh hit on Iowa City, Corville, North Liberty focusing on the successes and uh uh organizations and programs that helped to focus on uh helping people achieve home ownership through affordability um and different resources available for that. So that was pretty interesting. Um, on Saturday I attended the Habitat for Humanity women build groundbreaking ceremony dedicated to in honor of Liz Swanson. Um, it's a woman build and it's really exciting. Um, planning on volunteering to for that. So, if anybody is interested in volunteering for Habitat for Humanity, they're always looking for volunteers for those things. Um, and then I took my grandson also to the truck show and that was awesome. lots of he was climbing in and out of everything. So, it was really great. Um, and it was pretty good turnout, I think. So, um, and I think that that's all I have. Thank you. >> Yep. Thank you, everyone. Uh, moving down to the next item is the 2026A uh, bond sale. And first item on that is the public hearing on a proposal to enter into an essential purpose loan agreement. So we'll go ahead and open the uh public hearing on that. Anyone wishing to talk about that or Tracy, were there any? >> No. >> Yeah. Okay. I think we will then uh close the uh public hearing on that item. Item B then is a public hearing on proposal to enter into a general purpose loan agreement. So we'll open the public hearing for that. Anyone wish to speak Tracy? No opening. We will close the public hearing on uh that. Uh now we'll move on to resolution number 2026-46. a resolution taking additional action on proposals to enter into loan agreements and combining loan agreements. Entertain a motion for that. >> So moved. >> Second. >> All right. It's been moved and seconded. So, Ryan, could you just give us a little >> I'd be happy to. Uh, this the resolution in front of you is is uh uh this uh standard part of the the borrowing or bond issuance uh process uh really setting everything up for uh the sale of the bonds uh in early June. Uh the reason as I u mentioned in a in an email the reason for two public hearings is because there is a difference between essential corporate purpose uh and general corporate purpose. And um if you're interested sometime you can you can Google it or I'm happy to share with you the definitions because what you might think is essential the state often times uh defines as general and so general purposes are are more difficult to borrow for than the essential purposes like uh streets and sidewalks etc. That being said uh we're we're taking the steps to do that. uh and and tonight is is uh uh really the first step in approving the resolution and then uh you'll you'll see Tiana here in early June with the results of the bond sale. >> Thank you. Any questions? >> All right. Uh can we have a roll call, please? >> Libold, >> I. >> Was I? >> Or I. >> Smith. >> Hi. >> Park. All right. Motion passes. Five. Moving down to next item 11, Eastern Iowa Productions LLC preliminary site plan. >> Thank you. >> Versus the staff and planning commission. >> Thank you. So this is uh a preliminary site plan. This property is located on uh Stoner Court just east of Herky. And the proposal is for a 12,000 a little over 12,000t building addition and then another building uh of just over 25,000 ft² uh and also related infrastructure. Total property is 5.52 acres. Uh this is for EMS detergent surface uh services. They manufacture and supply cleaning and detergent products. Um, I know uh it's always nice to to kind of look for and and receive, you know, large economic development um projects in our community, but really, you know, it's I continue to believe that local businesses and local business expansion is the lifeblood of our of our economic development. So, it's really uh nice to see kind of an industrial area of of an expansion um that we don't see too often just cuz we don't have a lot of industrial. So, it's nice to see this area thriving and and this business thriving as well. Um, just kind of some of the there's the site plan that shows the building addition and then the new building to the to the kind of the south of it. And we don't have any objections to the request. And there was one finding and the planning commission accepted that finding and unanimously recommended approval at its May meeting. And I know John Mner here and and Dan Hayes with EMS is here as well if you have questions about the business. But uh great project. We're excited about it. >> Uh thank you. Uh applicant presentation. Anything you want to >> Good evening. John Marner with MMS Consultants representing the applicant uh and the owner. Nothing to add to Russ's comments and uh presentation. And I would just say uh one additional item, it's a phased construction project. So the first phase would be the building expansion on the existing building and then the second phase would be that new building, the larger building and some additional parking as part of that. Um the storm water detention would be expanded again to kind of get additional impervious area. And I'll let Dan Hayes speak a little bit about the business itself and and what each building will be used for. Thanks. >> Good evening. unique. If >> I was a little younger, I'd be able to do this off my phone, but I have to have these big cards. So, um, as John said, my name is Dan Hayes. I bought EMS Detergents in January of 2009. We were a small janitorial supply company at that time with six employees, operating out of an 8,000 ft building on Herky Street in North Liberty. Unlike most janitorial supply um houses, as Ryan mentioned earlier, we also manufacture many of our clean products inhouse. So, I'm very proud of that. Um we service customers pretty much in the whole state of Iowa. Once you get past De Mo, there's not a whole lot past that, but we got a few customers and then halfway into Illinois. Um as um the business grew, EMS added another 4,000 square feet in 2017 at the Herky Street location. But over time and um we were no longer able to expand. There was no more room at on Herky Street. So we searched for a larger location in North Liberty and that's where in April of 2027, we moved around the corner on Stoner Court and bought a 22,000t building building around the corner from there. With this new addition uh or this new uh building, there's definitely room to expand in the future. And today we have 28 employees, including five in our De Moine office and one in our Cedar Falls warehouse. So the request for the expansion is simply to support EMS's continued growth. So thank you for taking the time. >> Well, we appreciate your investment in North Liberty as well. >> Dan, we don't Mayor Pro Tim, if you don't mind. We we don't get many opportunities like this. um you know, especially when uh current owners in our community come in and want to do an expansion. You you were just around the corner and you you stated in your comments, you only looked in North Liberty. What what is it about, you know, our town uh that can help bring synergistic partners to you, but what what what drew you to North Liberty and what's keeping you here? >> Well, um a lot a lot has to do with the community. I mean, obviously this has been 15 years ago and the community is a lot smaller, but still it does offer a lot. I mean, we support to the uh food pantry in North Liberty and obviously we have a lot of customers between Reds and Tin Roost and Pizza Ranch and so forth and so on. So, we have a lot of different places. Uh the school district is also one of our customers in town. And then um and the fact that where it's located and to be honest with you, even 15 years ago, I fell in love with this building that we're in now. It just just a nice looking building. you know, I knew it had a lot of potential for expansion and and um land's not getting any cheaper. So, it's easier to expand than it would be to try to go and build something brand new from the scratch. So, um easy off the interstate. I mean, we we go to De Moines all the time. We go to Peoria. We go to Cedar Falls. We go to Davenport. So, I mean, it's just got a gas station's right there. So, there's just a lot of positive positive stuff about North Liberty. And Ryan said we'd have 30 years of no property taxes if we if they extended. So yeah, >> just kidding. >> Well, we had to throw that in. >> But he's getting me back cuz I made him speak here. >> Yeah, last week I deserve it. >> Yeah, John said, "No, you just stand there, don't do anything last week." Well, I didn't know I had to get up there and talk. So, a little off guard. So, this week I was a little more prepared. So, >> anyway, thank you. Congratulations on your continued success and we're glad you're here and and uh yeah, congrats. >> Yeah, I was just going to echo those same comments and congratulations, best of luck and continued growth. Um thank you for the investment in community and to Russ's earlier point, um this is the the one of the backbones of making this type of investment. We appreciate that and just recognize the opportunity to spread the good word about North Liberty to others that are interested in that a similar approach or are interested in moving here or bringing their business here cuz it's we appreciate it and we we recognize that. >> Thank you. I I will say Ryan's been awesome to deal with. It plays a big part of whether you want to stay in a community or not and how much you have to fight to to try to grow. And so um thank you Ryan for for working with us. >> That's all I have. Okay. >> Thank you. Thank you. Um, next item is C resolution 2026-47, a resolution approving the preliminary site plan for I380 industrial park lot 12. I entertain a motion for that. So moved. >> Second. >> Any discussion? Can we have a roll call, please? >> Park, >> I. >> Wesson, >> I. >> Or I. >> Lold. I >> Smith >> I >> motion passes 5-0. Moving down to the next item 12, Green State Credit Union parking agreement. Uh was resolution number 2026-48, a resolution approving the permissive use agreement for parking between the city of North Liberty and Green State Credit Union. Could I have a motion for that? So moved. Second. >> It's been moved and seconded. Uh anybody have any questions? >> What's I I guess what what's the purpose behind needing to codify this? >> Uh so we are uh Green State has offered to let us have the use of their of their uh parking lot. Uh but in in that process, we've agreed they've asked that we indemnify. So any damages >> uh that uh that are incurred by that by by virtue of our using or for our event uh you know they want us to make sure that we're on on the hook for that. That's a that's a seemed a very reasonable ask. Uh but it does require council if we're going to be on the hook for something like that. So >> excellent. >> Staff recommends approval. >> Thank you. Did you have anything, Nick? Or okay. Thank you to Green State for uh helping us out uh because there's a lot of events coming up uh this summer. So, it's been moved and seconded. Do we have a roll call, please? >> Mason, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> Libel, >> I. >> For I, >> Smith, >> I. >> Motion passes 5-0. Moving to item 13, on street parking resolution. Uh, item A, resolution 2026-49, a resolution approving the parking control devices in the city of North Liberty, Iowa. Entertain a motion for that. >> So moved. >> I'll second. It's been moved and seconded. Anybody have any questions or we're just tweaking a place that kayak got out of? >> Yes, we had a citizen that that lives on the street um question why we we or asking us to consider um restricting parking to only one side and and that is consistent with our current policy. So, it was unclear why we we had sections where you could park on both sides. So, we sent letters to all the residents that would be affected and and did not hear anything from them, which which tells us that it's supportive. And so, the areas that are kind of in that magenta would be the new areas added for uh no parking. So, it kind of curves. So, it's hard to say it's on one side, but um and then we would still maintain it along the curve there uh just to keep that blind spot open. So, >> cool. >> Thank you. Any other questions? And did I see you mailed out correspondence to everyone in there? So, everyone should have ample >> Yep. >> opportunity to weigh in on it. >> Absolutely. >> All right. Can we have a roll call, please? >> Won, >> I. >> For I, >> Smith, >> I. >> Park. >> I. >> Lyel, >> I. A motion passes. Uh, 50. Moving on to item 14, purchasing policies. Resolution number 2026-50, a resolution approving the purchasing policy for the city of North Liberty, Iowa. I'd have a motion for that. >> So moved. >> Second. It's been moved and seconded. So you guys want to talk about this now? >> Sure. This is a a a small change in terms of the section of the um policy that's being requested to be changed, but what it does is it allows uh it allows us to pay catering and beverage vendors immediately uh at at the new H high center. And uh especially with alcoholic beverages, they're not those vendors are not allowed to um uh give 30 days. they have to be paid when it's delivered. Often times, uh most recently at the street dance, we pay them up front and then for whatever we don't use or what's not open, we get rebates back for. Uh so it's just going to make uh doing business at the H High Center a little bit easier for for our team here. >> Any questions? >> Just a comment. I was I was happy to see, you know, part of that policy is making a good faith effort to buy purchase stuff from North Liberty businesses. That's >> that's great. >> And that's that's an existing policy. That part is existing. But thank you. >> Yep. And appreciate you just kind of giving us a ballpark range of things just so that we have some idea where we're at and stuff. So, >> uh, any other questions? Roll call, please. >> Park, >> I. >> For I. Wesson >> I >> Libel >> I >> Smith >> I motion passes 5 to zero moving on to item 15 HY center staffing discussion and possible action on making the HY event center lead position full-time. So, >> I'll kick us off, but I'll say that uh Nick Bergus is here and can speak on this. And Alexis Miller, HR director, is also uh in the room this evening uh and has has been a part of some of the struggles we've seen with uh trying to hire a part-time person for the event lead. Uh what I'll say is that we've um we've had uh numerous discussions internally. It's clear that um it's clear that the Hy Center is a success. We're booking events uh as you saw as recently as today with the gin blossoms being announced in September. So, we're having great success there. Uh in our initial thought, uh probably pushed by me was let's get a revenue stream before we um start bringing on additional full-time people. But what we're learning is that in order to get that revenue stream, we really need to have some additional folks. Uh we need to invest early uh or um invest now so that uh we can we can see this facility grow in terms of programming and and rentals. Uh I think I will leave it there if if Nick has anything to add or Alexis has anything they want to add. Yeah, >> Benny. Yeah. >> Yeah. I'm happy to answer any other other questions. Um we've offered this job as a part-time job three times. Um we've posted it twice and and we're really struggling. Um our team is really busy and we're trying to do the things that we are been doing in the past and add this new facility and all these new large events. Um, and so I'm I think the concern we need to get that capacity in there. Um, and we're concerned that we're just not going to be able to fill that long term at all with a 29-hour a week position. Um, we're conscientious of the of the um budget impacts and we'll continue to be thoughtful. We've been we have event assistance that we're using sort of to fill in some of those events and we've been sparing in that as well. So, we've got the capacity. We need the capacity and we're thinking about how to do this. Uh, I think this will bring Angela some additional capacity to do some sales, particularly for some of those weekday uh business rentals. Um, that's where we've got a lot of space right now. We've got a lot of weddings on the books. We've got a lot of graduation parties on the books. Um, but we just need somebody to sort of help do some of that advancing. uh take some stuff off of her plate so she can do some additional sales and just uh give her some weekends off too. >> Anybody have any questions or >> uh No questions for me. Just a few comments. Maybe Ryan, you and I talked about it a little bit this morning just in our one-on-one, but this is really an opportunity to invest ahead. Um is kind of how I see that. Um and and from the beginning with the HY Centennial Center, uh there's been a commitment to do it right. Right. The facility is top-notch. The the the grounds are top-notch. Um the effort and support behind it are top-notch. Now, we need to get make sure that we have the staffing uh do it right. And so, that's how I kind of see this opportunity and this request or this ask. So, um just wanted to comment on appreciate you guys uh or the team working through some of the and now recognizing this is an opportunity to invest ahead. Let's do this right. so that we get it right from the beginning. >> What was the budget implication? >> It was right around $30,000. Yeah. >> And that's that's not accounting for any potential new revenue that we think this position could generate. >> So, I guess Brian, that would be my question for Lexus. Is is this is this competitive salary range? Because to Brian's point, but two things, Brian's point, we want to do this right and we don't want somebody to come in for a year, spend all the time to build relationships in sales, um, and then maybe go somewhere else. That's one. And then Ryan, I'm appreciative of the conservative approach that you took in saying, "Okay, let's let's try this, get some revenue in, and then grow it." and then the staff's one the staff's um openness and willingness to come to the boss and say this isn't working and and and it's failing us and our team that's okay that's okay for directors to be able to do that uh and I appreciate the the approach to come and say it's it's not working and for it to be successful these are the things that we need to do so stop rambling and I'll ask on the on the range are we confident that this is going to get someone that we can maybe hold on to a So, right now, the position was posted for the 29 hours a week with part-time benefits, which include time off, sick leave. Um, does not include health, vision, dental, diapers. Um, the extended benefits that you have from being a city employee. The current wage is posted at $18.50 an hour. Um, given our current labor market, we we are in a competitive market. Um, that alone without benefits, that's that's a tough sell. um we're trying to look for highquality individuals to stay in the facility um while there's not tons of staff there, right? And we want to ensure that safety and that people are being held accountable for their actions there and be appropriate in the needs if there is a response needed and keep the people safe and the facility safe and clean as well. Um so with that, I mean, we have our our wage range that that we're at. Um but given the dynamic in the the the labor market, there's probably going to be a future need to expand that wage to capture a large larger audience for um qualified people um that we're looking for. I guess I would just mention part of what makes North Liberty so great is already the incredible amount of events that we already do that you guys are busy with and that you knock it out of the park. You know, every time this to me is a no nobrainer also because of what you know has been mentioned before with you know you only get one chance to make a first impression. And while people will probably be forgiving, let's let's get someone good in there, you know, take some of the the strain off off all the stuff that you guys already do. And even having said that, I know that there's a there's an incredible need for volunteers from the community, too. From us, from the, you know, community to make sure that this all goes off because it's one of the coolest things, you know, to happen to North Liberty. and you know all these events that are coming in I'm I'm so excited about including the you know the most recently announced one. So um yeah just an opportunity to plug that we do need volunteers from the community also for these events but you know having someone full-time and and to Brent's point making it competitive right off the bat so we can get somebody good that will stay and that will help us knock it out of the park like we do for everything else. So, thank you for all the hard work. Really, >> I I'm in agreement with all of everybody else and stuff. So, um I think to move that along, I would entertain a motion to make the IV event center event lead position full-time starting as soon as we can find somebody. >> So, moved. >> Second. >> It's been moved and second. Any other discussion? Ryan, does that motion give you and staff flexibility on that salary range so that when you get candidates in, you can make >> Yeah. or Yes, it does. >> Okay, we're good. >> I I just I I don't want to I don't want to tie hands. I I want flexibility in it. >> Yeah, we we will have that through our We have a a scoring rubric and if when we see things that need adjusted, we make those adjustments. Okay, we're good. Thank you. I appreciate that. >> Y I think getting uh benefits involved will be helpful. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> All right. Uh can I have a roll call, please? >> We can do a voice vote on this one. >> This can be a voice. >> Okay. All in favor say I. >> I. I. >> I. Any opposed? >> Motion passes. >> Moving on to the next item. Item 16. Uh resolution 2026-51. A resolution approving task order number 26-02 between the city of North Liberty and Strand Associates, Inc. for the water supply and treatment improvements division one well number seven conversion. Have a motion for that. >> So moved. >> Second. It's been moved and seconded. Any >> I would just say that um this project has four divisions. Division one uh will be bid here in the shortly within the next 30 days I believe. Uh divisions 2 through 4 you'll see a little bit later this summer. Uh we've approved design for all of them. This is um specific for division 1's uh bidding and construction administration. >> Thank you. Any other questions? >> It's been moved and seconded. Uh can we have a roll call, please? Won >> Hi, >> Liebold. >> Hi, >> Fortney. >> I Smith. >> Hi, >> Park. >> Hi. >> Great. Motion passes 5 to zero. Moving to item 17, quick start resoning. Uh item A, a second consideration of ordinance number 20 26-06, an ordinance amending the zoning designation for certain property located in North Liberty, Iowa from IL Light Industrial District to C2 Highway commercial district. Entertain a motion for that. So moved. >> Second. It's been moved and seconded. Uh and just kind of focusing on the resoning. Any discussion? Roll call, please. >> Forney, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> Way, >> I. >> Park, >> hi. >> Li, >> I. Passes five to zero. And moving on to item 18, old business. Uh, any new business? >> Brian, I just, uh, looking at a very full calendar here coming up. A lot of graduations. So, congratulations uh to all of our graduates in in all of the area schools, our Memorial Day uh full slate of of programming that will be taking place on that weekend. Uh just get out and uh uh support our um our uh veterans and all the programming that's going on uh through our city, including don't forget Port Tornadoes for the very first concert. Can't forget that. Uh, I would take the opportunity. I was driving down um ranch way and off to my right, you know, is a young person driving a scooter. I'm talking going the same speed as me, which was about 35 mph through multiple parking lots. I mean, it would literally take one person backing out before there would have been something um disastrous happening there. It's really fun. I love seeing kids riding around and hanging out with their friends on the scooters. But if we could, I mean, just please wear a helmet. U I know my even my own uh child has had that helmet, save them twice uh on a scooter. And so, please just wear the helmets, be safe. Um and you know we obviously we'll be monitoring you know what we need to do as far as you know making sure those people are being safe on the electric vehicles. Uh one thing I would mention is if people look at the packet monthly department reports are all in there and the staff has been doing an incredible amount of work. So always interesting to see what they're up to. Anything else and entertain a motion to adjurnn. So moved. >> Second. That's moved and moved and seconded. Any discussion? All in favor say I. I. Any opposed?