Title: MPOJC Meeting January 12, 2026
Published: 2026-01-13 11:45:41
Video ID: 8bj6WWUdCR8

Everyone, >> happy new year. You guys all look so shocked this morning. Was I kind of loud to start off? All right. Well, I got to get your attention. Sorry. Um we I will call this uh joint entities meeting for Monday, January 12th, 2026 to order. And uh per usual, we'll just go around the room and introduce ourselves. And we got some new faces uh in in our respective entities. So Paul, would you mind doing us the honors? Let us know who you are and who you're with. >> My name is Paul Park and I'm on the city council here in North. >> Hi, I'm Lisa Green Douglas. I am on the Johnson County Board of Supervisors. Uh Tanya Courtney North. >> Rod Sullivan, board of supervisors. >> James Finch, Iowa City board. >> John Green, supervisor. Jim Kemp, Mayor Hills from Mayor, University Heights. >> Dr. Wales University Heights student council Charlie City School John County supervisor >> I'm Aaron tok the VP of programs at Horizons >> Sandy Waker Horizon Zang Corville City Council Davidson superintendent of schools at Clear Creek Mano >> Shayen [snorts] here Corville City Council >> Nick Viper school board at Clear Creek AMA and also uh I think Iowa City Commission. >> Laura Bergus, Iowa City Council, Andy Bington, Johnson County Board of Super, Lori Goodrich, mayor of Coralville, >> and Chris Hoff, the mayor here in North Liberty. I should have started with myself, but I applaud those. So, is more elected to walked in since we started this? I don't think so. >> There she is. Jennifer, would you mind introducing yourself a little bit? sugar. >> Thank you. Can everyone hear? Okay, we got a nice fan above us. You guys hear? Okay. Back there. Okay. If you wouldn't mind remembering that. Uh it's in a the spot like that. I'm going to start off with uh any public comment. Tracy, I'll look to you if we received anything online in regards to public comment. >> We have not. >> Okay. Is there anyone in the audience from the public wishing to address this committee? Okay, seeing none, I will close public comment and I will move right to item four, which is the field mediation pilot intro by Johnson County Supervisor Mandy Remington and I'm city councelor Bergus. If you guys want to go through the presentation, you're welcome to do so there or I've got the keyboard and you can run it from here. Um, we have the team. >> Okay. I think you guys got that. >> Thank you. >> See if that works. >> There you go. I can see the mouse on the screen. >> So, I'm doing some information sharing that comes with a bit of an invitation to everyone. Sorry. Information sharing with a bit of an invitation to everyone at the table here. Um Johnson County and the city of Iowa City were recently awarded a 15month grantf funed technical assistance to launch a field mediation program. And so this program will help get communities existing mobile crisis responders cross-trained to be able to respond to nonviolent conflicts as well as the mental health crisis that they currently respond to. and um designed to strengthen prevention and diversion efforts while expanding innovative approaches to public safety. There were two communities in the country that were awarded this grant. So it's us and one of um so field mediation is community based. It is unarmed responders who are trained in conflict mediation providing an alternative to 911 for nonviolent conflict related situations. um and it can divert appropriate 911 calls from law enforcement to trained mediators when deemed when appropriate. Our pilot is likely going to start with just the um number that community currently has and we will explore 911 diversion at a later time. Um technical assistance is provided by dignity best practices and it's funded by the uma ICDR foundation. We're going to get about 15 months of support around 800 hours and that pilot development process is starting. Um they're doing a site visit in January. They're going to ride along with community as well as with the Iowa City Police Department's crisis response and the local regular. So this program is responding to strong community interest in prevention and diversion strategies. It positions Johnson County, Iowa City, and any other municipalities that decide to join us as early adopters of innovative public safety models. And it builds on existing alternatives such as mobile crisis response, restorative justice, and the Johnson County Ambulance Services Label integrative program. Um, again, the grant provides 15 months, 800 hours of technical assistance starting this month. They have a toolkit that we have access to. They will be coming to our community four times during that 15 months. The first time will be at the end of this month and they will assist with stakeholder engagement, [clears throat] budgeting and operational development. So, next steps, we are having a community conversation. Um, that is a public facing informational event at the Iowa City Public Library on January 27th from 6:00 to 7:30 p.m. Um, dignity best practices will be present for that event just to kind of let the community know what we're doing. And then the cross agency committee will develop the pilot with dignity best practices to make sure that it is appropriate for our community. um is not using an existing template which is why there's not a whole lot of information to share right now other than this invitation to be a part of designing what it will look like for we are going to have bi-weekly meetings um of this cross agency committee starting February 12th um from 12 to 1:00 on Thursdays those will be hybrid meetings so they'll be on Microsoft Teams as well as in room 110 at the admin building at the Johnson County Administration building at 913 South D Street. Um, and if there are any other municipalities that want to be involved in designing this pilot, um, or just be informed as we go along, please let us know. We want to have as much stakeholder involvement as we can. Questions at this time? of Andy and it's a very interesting proposal really intriguing. Um is it possible for non nongovernmental entities be involved in this development process member of a group community group that might have someone is that possible? >> Yeah, absolutely. Um so we have already invited um United Action for Youth and uh I sent an invitation to Rubina today um the school board as well. Um Mediation Services of Eastern Iowa is involved. Um obviously community is involved as they're going to be the ones that have been fostering. So yeah, if you have an agency that's interested in being involved or you just want to email me contact information, um I can bring that to the group and as long as there isn't any concern for any reason um let this agency >> yeah that's >> thank you very much. >> Thank you. Definitionally in terms of technical assistance is that sort of like subject matter expertise and they do or technical as in we will help set up infrastructure or is it yes and or that is to be seen and co-created? >> That is a little bit of both. Um so yes they have stood these programs up um very connected to the one in Dayton Ohio. So they have experience that from the ground up in the entire process. Um they say support with the design, implementation and launch of a pilot program including cross agency working group facilitation, community engagement support, pad call analysis, call type selection, dispatch pathways, fuel protocol training design, and performance metric selection. >> Is there a community that has done this before? >> Dayton, Ohio is the the best example. Who was the other community selected? Please tell me it was New York. >> Um I you know what? I'm actually not sure. I don't know. >> Or Denver or something. >> They haven't told us that. Um but I Yeah. >> Three wrap is cool, too. >> That's a lovely. >> Awesome. Thanks, Mandy. Thanks, Laura. Let's move on to item five, which is the trip connect update by Johnson County Mobility Coordinator Kelly Schneider. [clears throat] >> Where can I come from? >> That would probably give you the wildest. >> Hi, I'm Callie Schneider. We're ready. >> Okay. See if I can control this. Perfect. Awesome. Hi, I'm Cali. I'm the mobility coordinator. I have people all around. So, I'm just going to turn around and say hi. Um, I have been in position as mobility coordinator uh since 2017. So, I originally got started at the county um doing travel trainings on the fixed route systems and then kind of involved into helping transit expand. [clears throat] Um, it's been a while since I've been in front of this group. So, I think we were just launching um looking for an operator for our service when I was here two years ago. So now we have a year under our belts. All right. So, Trip Connect, Trip Connect is a wraparound transportation service that was designed to meet needs when our transit systems are not operating. So, this >> Do you see it on the screen? >> Yeah, I do. >> I didn't turn aroundation. [laughter] There we go. Okay. So, uh the primary p purpose is to get people to employment, education, and child care when the buses are not running. Um we have an operator of NTS Horizons who's in the room here with us today. Um NTS operates um on demand service in the city of Cedar Rapids when their buses are uh finished running for the day. So NTS Horizons as our operator runs the service head to toe. Um it's a doortodoor service. So unlike the fixed jobs in the area, somebody just stuck at their door and taken to where they're going. And then uh the service is booked on an app. So it's really nice to have that access in the palm of your hand and not have to stop by, grab a bus schedule, uh purchase a pass, all that good stuff. uh where we landed on setting up the service initially. This was December 11th of last year. So we just uh came around the corner of our first year service. We run in the evening. So service just is getting started here pretty soon. 5:00 p.m. to midnight um on the days of Sunday through Monday. That's a typo. I'm sorry. The days that we operate are Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. So there's no Saturday service. My apologies on that. Um, we have a booking window of a minimum 1 hour and a maximum of seven days. Um, the areas that we include are all the urban areas of Johnson County and then we have um some rural territory uh Solen, Swisser, Shouyville and all parts north of Interstate 80 be served. Um the app that NTS uses to power this is VA. So, it's a very well-known um public transit uh software that kind of matches up the trips and puts people in the same vehicles and sets up the services that way. All right, here is a snapshot of the financials for this project. Um this is current through the end of October. So, this is a little bit dated um as we work through our past. um you can see here that we have um several graded uh funding opportunities that helped us put this together. Um it's been quite a bit to manage all of that, but um we were happy that these funds were available to make it happen. Uh the biggest piece of the puzzle and one of the biggest was the state DOT special project funding that's available each year. Um, also we had some county ARPA funds that helped support this project along with the National Center for Mobility Management, City of North Liberty, Kirkwood, and then some passenger running to help subsidize as well. So, um, in all in all, our service costs about $1,300 an evening. We operate two vehicles, one of which is accessible, so an accessible vehicle is available at all times. And then um our monthly invoices have been running around 32,000. So here's the story of our writership. So that first partial month, you can see we really took a while for people to understand what this service was and how it worked. And then you can see over time it's just really grown. Um it's been a really nice experience to see um how long it takes word of mouth to get started. So it's been um really uh just painted a picture of how long it really took us to get our numbers up. Um so you can see that our top month was October >> at 616. Just a little dip in November and then I sanity just completed our December report and we're back up to 600. So very pleased with how how much impact we've um gained as time's gone by. All right. One of the metrics that we look at is the cost per ride. I think this is also a very telling graphic. As you can see that first month when we only had about 40 trips, we lost, you know, a good, you know, chunk of money uh to running empty. But you can tell how much uh that word of mouth has really gone. and we can see the cost per ride. Uh so very pleased to see that. All in all for FY25 um our cost per ride was 122 per hour and then we've dropped that to 69 um for FY26 and that'd be through November. So I haven't put in that December year yet, but hoping to see that it's $55 or lower per per ride. Okay, this is probably the most interesting graphic that we'll have here. These are where everybody's been going. Um, so this really paints a picture of uh how people travel from one city to another and how little we've seen the rural uh communities um utilize this service. It wasn't until I think probably 6 months in that we actually saw some rural riders making trip requests. Um in the green column you'll see those are the starting points and then in the red are the destinations. Um so definitely heavy in Iowa City, Corville Liberty. Um but you can see that there's definitely couple of University Heights and then some. Um all in all for that um first year minus December we have 4,224 trips. Okay. So on this slide I think it's important to talk about um when people are using the trip connect service we're not usually seeing a round trip for them. We're not seeing that they write shoe times there and back. this is truly a wraparound. So, a lot of times they may be using another public transit service to get to somewhere and then trip connect is their option to get home. Um, so definitely a lot of one-way trips on our service. Um, very heavy on Iowa City to Iowa City. Um, we saw that there um was some some of the Iowa City routes that are not running past 6:00 or 7:00 p.m. had high demand. Um, you'll also see that there's [clears throat] a lot of I know I mentioned people traveling from one city to another. Um, I thought if you look at the North Liberty to North Liberty data, there's only eight trips that happened North Liberty to North Liberty. So, it really just kind of paints a picture of when you need to go somewhere and you're taking employment or education. Um, you know, that there's just it validates the needs for the city's water. All right, here is our top 10 vaccinations. Uh, this data is going to be a little bit shorter than the other ranges I provided. This is from the start of the pilot through the end of September. And we have to give a shout out to Angela um, City of North Liberty who's put this together. Um, one of the downsides of booking on this app is when you put an address in, you can put it in shortorthhand, you can spell out the word Iowa, you could spell out the word street, and it just gets really uh tedious to determine how much overlap there is between the destinations. Um, so the top destination is Walmart. Um, we learned through this process that in terms of via customers, Walmart is always the top destination across the United States. We're not very different in terms of that. Uh, pretty evenly split between Iowa City and Corville. We had a good amount of trips going uh to downtown Iowa City, several hi bees in the area, McDonald's, some different UI locations of course ridge mall, Kirkwood and Corville, Geico up here in North Liberty, Music for Life in North Liberty, an American Prosthetics which is in east side of Iowa City. Um so what these destinations are telling us is uh there is definitely some groupings of passengers heading to some trends. Um some of the people that you see on those last three um 8 through 9 or actually 8 through 10 are riders that started last December and have been riding with us [clears throat] for a full year. So it's really meant a lot to them. Um, also on this slide, I wanted to talk about um, when we've been setting this up, we've done some research on what jobs are available here in Johnson County. So, the Iowa Workforce Development was helpful to put that together. Um, when you look at open positions, top is always going to be healthcare for our area, but then right under that are industries like retail, food, accommodation. Um, so it makes a lot of sense that our destinations are aligning with the drops that are available. Okay, here's a quick snapshot on our performance overall. I mentioned how many rides we've had. On average, just under 500 per [snorts] month, about 19 rides per evening. We had wonderful performance and success with at booking. So, we felt very strongly that we needed to have a physical call center and a place to buy paper tickets and it's just it hasn't been used. So, 99.6% of our writership all use the app. So, we're really happy to see that that's been successful. Um, another shout out is passengers per hour. So, this is a metric that a demand response service looks at when they have to do their annual reporting um each year. And on average in the United States, a service like this has 1.59 passengers per hour and our service has had 1.68. So we've exceeded the national [clears throat and snorts] average just here in that sixth year. People are not on board very long. So it's about a 6 and 1/2 mile trip for 15 minutes. And then about half of our um trips are shared. So we are seeing that matching where there's more than one passenger on board. Okay, some more data here. When you book your trip, you're asked to select your travel co category. So you can see in the green is all the employment trips. So 76% are employment related. This is self-disclosed. And then um we have some other writers that are about make up about 15%. and then just a very small fortune of uses for child care. So, um we're glad we have that available. We think they could be better used, but we just haven't seen a lot of data on that so far. Okay, next slide in the yellow is how quickly or how long rather are people waiting to vote? This has been um an interesting experience for us because I think when we wanted to set up the service, we said we need people need two weeks to plan when they're going to make their trip. Um and that has not been the case. You can see that those first three bars on the top are all within the same day. So the vast majority of our ridership are booking the day that they need to book. So if you've ever used a lift, you're not planning that in advance. And that's kind of what this service has been is you need it when you're ready to travel. Um but then on the other hand, there are it still does mean a lot for people that um do book 48 hours in advance. So there there are some planners here. All right, these two um sets look at rides per hour. So in our 5:00 p.m. to midnight window, this is going to be on the left hand side. You can see that at 5:00 p.m. there's a big big spike. Um it's been interesting to learn if we started early if earlier than 5:00 p.m. if we pick up more rides. So um for the purpose of the pilot, we've stayed within the same time frame this entire time. Um which is 5 to midnight. Um, but when looking at that for FY26, it drops down at 6:00 and 7:00 p.m. and then starts picking back up from 8 to midnight. On the right hand side are the days of the week. So remember, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Sunday, mostly evenly spread. There's no days that are blatantly, you know, we just don't need to operate. So, it's been a good experience for us to learn um travel times. All right. To gather the impact, one of the um initiatives we did was a writer survey back in September. So, this was an electronic survey that went out to um over the app actually and encouraged writers to participate. Um what we learned is uh we have some younger younger writership. So majority are under age 40. They're half of the household. Their income is 30,000 or less. And I'm going to pause there because going back to the wages associated with retail, food, hotel, accommodations um are not great. So that makes sense that um this is serving low-income passengers. Um, we also asked if people have a driver license, driver's license, and it was about half of our ridership that did and then 85% said they don't have a vehicle. So, this really has been a lifeline for them to get to where they need to go. Um, there's a couple quotes on the side about, you know, our ridership uh helping people in temporary moments where their car was in the shop for months and then they were going to be able to get that back. Um, and then people saying that they've increased their attendance at work because they can get to uh school and um and child care. All right, I think this is the last slide here. Um, happened to last actually. But hi, very good feedback on how before trip connect it was difficult for people to get to work. Um the most meaningful statistic here for me is how it's helped people increase their personal finances. You know that you guys all get to hear projects about housing and child care and education and all the things and I think that transportation is often that vital connection to um helping somebody increase their personal finances. So I think that it's been a wonderful experience to see that and increasing attendance. Um, so I think it really proves a point to the employers in the area that this has been a service for them as well. All right. Sadly, um, all despite our best efforts, um, and our growth that we've had in the year, uh, this service will be ending on its scheduled um, end of this fiscal year. So that's going to be June 30th of this fiscal year. As I mentioned, um we did have some opportunities to meet with the city of North Liberty, city of Corville, transit directors, and then um Iowa City transit directors to talk about the service um as it's meant to wrap around their um existing um service load. Um unfortunately, there just wasn't a path forward financially that was identified at the time. So, it's our recommendation that the service is ended um on the schedule date. So, I think I mentioned that grants before, those were all one-time use, so those aren't going to be coming around again that we're eligible for. So with that, I'll take any questions or could you attribute those increases in wrership starting in about August to any employer um thing that may have started happening then? One thing that I can note that is unique to our community is school starting again. [snorts] And by that I mean the university. Um that would be one guess. But I think it really just took that long for people to understand what this service was and how it and if you think about somebody maybe that was unemployed, it may it may have taken them a little while to set up employment or potentially get a second job. before they leave that service. >> There were a couple of employers. Well, not not a couple, there were a couple of them just here in North Liberty. Um, >> yes. >> Music. Are those writers employees? Uh, I assume >> or are they? >> Yes. So, we haven't had any direct conversations with somebody and asked where they're employed. Um, because of except for number nine. Number nine, I can actually say this was an Iowa City resident that called me and was riding seats to the Corville border and once he got off the seats bus, he would Uber the rest of the way to life. So that is one person and he's using um the Geico person where may or may not be um janitorial. Okay, >> last question for you is what's the capacity left if this were to continue? How how full are these uh two vans compared to what? >> That's a really great question. Um I don't have any data pulled on that, but I did notice that when I was looking through December, our seats unavailable are rising. So the two vehicles for these seven hours a night is a perfect fit for where we're at now. And we're I think there is room for growth, but we're definitely getting close to capping out. >> So, find seats left on those two. What would we need to do? >> Yeah. Wouldn't you say the other thing? >> Yeah, I would agree. I think the other thing and you know, I'm comparing it with our service right now in Cedar Rapids. Um because it's operating totally different than what we expected and and that's because people are waiting so long to book. I think if this were to run longer, people will find they have to book their rides much sooner. to get an available ride. And if they do that, we could probably backfill more with the last minute ride or so. It's kind of >> I just think that that trend of how long people are waiting to book has shifted a little bit as the service has gotten more busy. Um because if they've had their ride unsatisfied, now they know they need to be a little bit more proactive and book earlier in the day. Um, just speaking from experience, when I log on to the operational center at like 9:00 a.m., I'll already see 10 people are ready to already have their trip request in for the day. Um, and it is a first come first basis. So, um, and as I mentioned that the unavailable number has been growing as the service gets busier. So, I we're good comfort level now. >> Yes. Um, let me foreground this by saying I think the that the service is a amazing and b that it is currently it's being funded in the way that it should by by public entities. However, with it tightening, have you had conversations perhaps in addition to those that you first, you know, mentioned about extending it with potentially some of these employers? >> We haven't. And part of the problem is when we first got started, we it was too soon to tell it. It was just it's this is really the story of it took a while to get started. we had success and now it's it's just and it's really difficult and we're I they [clears throat] um they have they've helped us connect to employers in the very beginning stages and we were focused on businesses like Alpha and PNG but what we're seeing here is corporate businesses that are doing retail food and um that's just a different that's a different conversation I think that there is room for that. We did have conversations with the DART system in De Mo and they absolutely have those business partnerships with with employers. I think that that that would definitely need to be required for the future of this service, but um the conversations that we had, we didn't have any immediate interest from starting further. But now we have the data, right? And I and that's where it gets a little bit unfortunate is we had to go to the city of North Liberty to thankfully help sort all of that. I mean, we're talking 4,000 rides. So, it was just a lot to um [clears throat] get aligned to be able to put these top 10 together. >> I missed this when the slide was up, but what was the annual operating cost? >> Annual >> projected or whatever. So you think that 686 is probably where you're going to land, >> right? [snorts] That is true. Yes, >> that's a year and a half or a year. That's that's the whole project. >> The whole project for 18 months. >> It's about >> It is 18 months. Yes. >> Yeah. It's been 30,000 a month average. in a with a reduction of passenger. >> Sandy, what does the wrership look like in this compared to what you've experienced up in Clinton County and Cedar Rapids? >> Cedar Rapids is is full. Um, yeah, we >> What number that we've seen can is that the 1.69 the 1.59 national average? What number would we have seen that you could give us in context what you mean by folder? >> I can't I'm sorry. Yeah, I don't have that. >> I would say our our unavailability rates in Cedar Rapids are daily. It's people are booking weeks or that's 7 days they're booking 7 days in advance. Um a lot more um different types of the community are using it. Um I know a lot of more refugees in Cedar Rapids use the service than here um in Johnson County. So, we're trying to get those other communities to um know about the program, but um it's just much more spread out in in Sierra. >> Are they using those services for work trips? Like >> the majority. >> So, we have 75% down here in this pilot so far. Do you have >> We've opened it up to everyone here. Um we don't restrict it. We're Cedar Rapids. We do restrict. >> It is just restricted to work. >> Okay. >> Yeah. And how long has that program been going >> in Cedar Rapids? Yeah, NDS started in 1994 in one neighborhood and expanded to a few more and then we're in the whole metro. Again, [snorts] how this service is different is that we don't go to the rural areas and so it is a smaller service area meaning trips because we don't go into rural areas. >> And Kelly, you had mentioned um it's how how much per per rider is it? Um $55 or something a trip? 69 >> 69 >> per >> the what what >> like per >> cost per ride? >> Yeah. Per ride >> like the cost per ride. >> Yeah. Yes. The lowest we got was $55 per ride. >> And I mean we know trans transit transportation is heavily subsidized. Do you have a sense of what other forms of transportation like how much those cost? I mean like to ride a bus or to I mean I'm sure it's probably significantly reduced but the idea is that it keeps going down. Do you have any sense or or either of you? Have you looked at any of I'm just curious because we have free buses in Iowa City. [laughter] Um, you know, there's there's heavily subsidized transportation happening everywhere. And so what is unfortunate about this highly successful pilot is that now that we have the word of mouth going out, now that you have the writership that you want, it's literally at the point in which it has to end. So, I'm just curious like costwise, is this way out of what we would normally see for a transportation? >> It's been a while since I looked at the cost per ride on the fixed route, but it is difficult because >> the the fixed route's going to run rather whether or not there's a passenger [laughter] bus and then I think a lot of that's changed with fair free. So, I have not seen updated information, but I'm sure the NO has good thoughts on that. I did research that a little bit as far as what microtransit should cost and it should be anywhere between 20 and 40 and I think we can lower that cost per ride if we rent out the ridership. Um, you know, I I think there's ways of tweaking our program to bring that cost per ride up. You know, whether it's changing the service area and the times of our vehicles. Um, >> yeah, there's ways to such. >> What are you experiencing in Lyn County for wrership costs per ride? >> I know that. >> Well, you had a couple minutes. >> Normally, I don't speak at these meetings. [laughter] I'm so sorry. I I don't have that. >> I mean, are are you in that 20 to 40 or do you think you're outside of outside of that $40? >> Yeah, I I really can't answer that. Very information and get back to you for sure. Yeah, we can definitely email that to ride. >> Anybody have that number? No. >> Angela's on it. >> See, this is this is how much the project's just outgrown. >> Social services to put >> I think seats is like 40 bucks or I know when Horizon >> and they're really efficient. So, if you go back to that number of 1.68, I think they're over two passengers per hour. So, they're very efficient service. And you guys are limited to employers. You said those rides just go >> Well, we we do um medical appointments, but the hours we run there's very few medical appointments. And then we do um training and classes as well, but again, there's very few. Our hours um don't really begin until 7:30 at night and then we'll go to about 6:00 in the morning and then um varies on the weekend. So, our hours are totally different. We really are meant to kind of close that loop with Cedar Rapids Transit and there's very little overlaps industry, too. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're we're one transit system. You know, >> I think what's unique about our area is we have some cities that have limited transportation services and then some that there are there is duplication. And I think that that's definitely a learning point from this experience is there needs to be better coordination amongst all the services in the room. Um especially since uh most of our passengers are just one direction. I think that there needs to be better coordination. >> I think some of the barriers for continuing are not just financial but also who's going to do it because it's outgrown social services which >> absolutely it's already a testament to the fact that you've carried it this far. >> Yeah, we were happy to um have the service. It's been a great experience about the potential in our area, but yes, it is the reality that we've outgrown what we can do in the county social services department. Mayor >> Hoff, sorry. Is it >> would you say when Iowa City was looking at um Verizon's actually scoped an overnight service when we were looking at do we have Sunday service, do we go carefree or do we do like this type of service in Iowa City and that was estimated to $60. Yeah. And so with our rate, it I can tell you our hourly rate for the contract is $93.25. So what that does include is the software, the vehicles, the staff, the management, the oversight, the full package. That's how we got to that number. And I think that's where we see some differences. Um and that you know I think that when we had the discussions with Iowa City Transit Fair is priority and then fleet right they just didn't see a way to a path forward for having a service like this when they're in those dire situations with the service load. So it is the saddest story. Um and I think the worst part is how much this has impacted our community. there if there's a way to rally on this in the future. Um, it's definitely very meaningful. >> Yes. >> Thinking about how the impact >> I'm going to come closer so I can hear you. >> Thinking about the impact on on the community. Uh is it possible to give some notion of what the uh economic uh rec uh uh effect for each rider is? >> Maybe not specifically for our area, but I do know that the Iowa DOT just hired um Iowa State University to look at economic impact. One of the cities that they looked at was City of Cedar Rapids. So basically that's helping us say for every dollar that you put into public transit investment, this is how much it means for the city. So I can pull that up. Um I think it'd be good to know that. But uh they also looked at several rural communities in the state. If >> there were a way to you know sadly it's going to be sunset in April, right? How much money? I mean that that notion of like okay well and then we can somehow work together and work with businesses and okay we've we've got the money now for another year or something like that. >> What is the impact of having to essentially shut down and then start back up again? I mean economically that would no that's a lot of effort capacity money that instead of trying to find a even if it was a >> not that >> shortened and abbrevi so that it is not ceased >> right >> yeah to then have to start it all over again >> yeah I think that is an amazing question I do not know how to answer that I'll be honest but I will say that it just makes sense to have a cost sharing model. And I think we've had some conversations about what seeds does for their parent transit contracts, right? So when an Iowa City writer's on the bus, when a Corville rider is on the bus, when an orb riders on the bus, and theirs is very detailed by the minute, um if you go back to that table by rides that I showed you, it makes it seem like an equal piece of the pie when you're doing city to city. um whether somebody's starting or ending. Um but I absolutely think that doing a cost sharing method between the cities makes the most sense. >> And um I I'm new to the VP role. I've been at Horizons for about a year overseeing meals on wheels, but I u we restructured and I'm moved into this role to help do more partnership building and trying to find funding for um specifically this program as well. Um, so in the next because it ends in June, correct? June. Yeah. June 30th. >> June 30th. Yep. Um, so that is my goal starting at the beginning of this year to try to find funding to continue at least if not all of this, continue something um in this area. And yeah, through city's help, that is kind of where we're heading to try to see what we can do to partner with the cities, if not to completely fund, but figure out how we can as this these uh three cities and Tiffen and um these areas, how we can work together uh for our community members. I will say FTS Horizons has been extremely flexible and that is part of the reason why we looked outside of the county or the regular transit operations here to be able to operate something like this. And we're fortunate that your service area includes Johnston County. So they have meals on wheels programs here. Um so they already had office space available to park the vehicles and have the drivers be able to check in. So that was also a key piece for us. So thank you. Yeah, we're happy to do it. Are there any other questions for Kelly? >> I would have one. >> Uh I'm looking back through uh I correct me if I'm wrong or if I missed something, but uh I see data about the destinations. Um, is there data about uh like percentages or amounts of residents of which community utilize uh connect more? >> You don't know residency. That's because when you're booking the ride, you the information you have to provide is your name, your phone number, and an email. We don't actually know the residency. We do have data from our survey and I that I don't have memorized. I think we have that available online where you can um view the full data from the survey, but that was just a small sample of need participants. With the top 10 that I had listed up here, we left out any residential areas mainly because we didn't want to identify people's personal homes. Um, but Angela did do some digging and has found that uh some of the addresses have properties that are, how do I explain this? Not leased, but owned by um disability providers. So, NYP unlimited owns a lot of the homes. >> Yeah. So, that is not in the tip top 10 because we didn't have the time to sort through 4,000 addresses and determine what was MIP system. That was another um standout that we kind of had a late celebrity on. Sorry, real quick. I just ask one quick question. >> Do you since it's uh by email, that was really helpful to know. Do you know how many emails? Just trying to figure out like how many actual individuals have signed up and participated. >> We can find that data, but yeah, we just don't have it on hand. >> Yeah, we can definitely get that information for you. >> I just think that'd be really really helpful. like if this is 30 people taking lots of rides or if it's you know how that is that would be >> I can look it up real quick. >> We can access all that information but yeah it probably won't be right now. So thank you. >> Anybody else? >> Anyone else? >> Here's my contact information if you want to keep the conversation going. Thank you. >> Thank you. I know that. Move on to item six, which is [clears throat] welcome Meet America update by Johnson County Community Engagement and Policy Coordinator Ala. I'm going to stop. >> Oh, I was like, you got [laughter] it. >> I was I was working on it, but then I was just going to embarrass myself. >> I was totally cheering for you. Um, good evening. I'm the uh community engagement and policy coordinator for the Johnson County Board of Supervisors Office. Um yes, excited to talk about welcoming community certification um on behalf of the core committee who is also with me and they'll do some speaking as well. Um but really excited to share kind of the outcomes of a certification process that took about 16 months. Um and what we really found is it highlights the work that's already happening across the county. Um and it's really uh trying to build a foundation uh for working collaboratively um for the betterment of public service to our community. So with that, can't hold two things at once. Um, we're going to review the certification, the process, the impact that this work has had so far, why this matters, and what comes next. But first, I will let the core committee appear in the beautiful gallery, introduce themselves, and then who wants to start? Abby. Ellen. >> I'm Ellen Alexander. I'm the assistant director at the Coralville Public Library and I'm sort of the representative from Coralville on this committee. >> I'm Evan Doyle with Greater Iowa City. >> Shayen Harrington with Iowa City. I didn't realize there was a pecking order [laughter] when I sat down up there. >> I'm Abby Cobb, City of North Liberty's outreach and access coordinator. >> Yes. So we have great representation which is always exciting in a project like this. But the certification overview welcoming America um who is who holds this kind of certification and framework um launched this certified welcoming community program in 2017 um really as a designation for local governments in particular uh to demonstrate welcoming values through policies, programs and practices. It's a five-star system. So Johnson County recently acquired a one-star designation, but it includes criteria that reflects the wide range of institutions and policies that influence day-to-day life in local communities. And I love this picture. I don't know why that girl brings me so much joy. She reminds me of like the DGA ballerina. But anyway, [laughter] um we chose to take a community approach, which is why the core committee is so important um to obtaining this certification. Again, like I said, only local local government entities are eligible for this designation. Um, and so what this really means is that we fully acknowledge that the work that is done by our community and truly our nonprofit partners as well. Um, and not just the work that is done at the local government level is what makes Johnson County a place that people feel like they can belong. And so the certification journey is actually a six-step process that we'll quickly peek at here in the next few slides. Um, but it really started not right now, but a while ago. For at least the last five years, um, organizations within Johnson County have actively participated in another one of Welcoming America's programs called Welcoming Week, which is usually, uh, 10day, I want to say, week. Um, uh, that each day uh, really like has kind of a theme that is supposed to celebrate um, all aspects of kind of living, playing, working in Johnson County. and how welcoming you can be. Um, and so for the first time ever in 2024, uh, Welcoming America created a foundational co cohort. Um, this was the opportunity to be a part of a cohort of municipalities across the country in pursuing either a one, two, or three star designation. They already had cohorts for their four and fivear designation. So, this was the first time that they offered it for the um, smaller star designations. and we applied um and were selected to participate which was really exciting. Uh by Febru February of 2025 we already had to have um our self assessment ready and we had to provide evidence across the 16 categories that the onear designation looks at. So uh the designation stars do build upon themselves. So the one star is only I say that in quotes 16 categories but as you build up into higher star designations you're expected to provide a lot more evidence across a lot more categories. Um and so in May we hosted a 1-day 7-hour virtual audit. Um it was honestly very taxing to sit on a Zoom call for that long. Um, but it brought together at least four relevant Johnson County departments and at least 13 community organizations to verify the evidence that we had submitted um and gather additional context. And so the people that participated included the core committee um design from the Iowa City Community School District and other organizations and community leaders. Um, and at the end of the day, I very distinctly remember looking around at the core committee and being pretty positive that we were going to receive the designations. that was always um and so they made us sweat it out quite a long while. Um we were told that we would know I think 6 to 8 weeks if we had received the designation or not. We ended up finding out in the fall. Um so it was a long while before we received notice that um that we had received the designation which was exciting. Um you do also receive a final report that is written by the auditors. So these auditors are come from communities that have already um tried to get these designations or have received these designations and then are trained by the Welcoming American team [clears throat] to basically hold these audits. Um and so we found out that we were the first community in the state of Iowa to ever receive this designation, which is really exciting. And we are one of the four counties across the United States that have received this designation. this is a more popular designation for city entities and so a having a county pursuit is something that they are still also kind of figuring out. So it's exciting to be at the top. Um we learned a lot from reviewing that report that came back and kind of figuring out what comes next, identifying priorities um so we can continuously improve the work. And so what is a little bit of what we were asked for? So there are these framework areas. Um there's seven of them. Uh the county only had to meet six of them. Um and so it was 16 categories across these six framework areas. Um and what we found is that each of these framework areas really align with systems that already exist to provide public service. So it didn't feel like it was a big reach or that we were struggling um to find things [snorts] that matched. We actually struggled a lot with what evidence to turn in because um our community had such an abundance of programming and and just yeah work that gets done every day that fits each of those categories. So that was kind of the toughest part for us. Um so although some criteria really specified certain recipient communities, we found that much of our evidence um highlighted programs and services that ensured that all residents are able to participate in economic, civic, and social life in Johnson County. And we ended up providing evidence from both the rural and urban districts and ended up highlighting work being done even outside of the three kind of major cities. um which was really exciting and we're really grateful that we have the opportunity to reach kind of out of the Iowa City, Coralville, North Liberty area and provide evidence outside of those scopes. Um so why this matters? I have had the absolute pleasure of working with the core committee for the last 16 months to make this a reality. And so I think their insights and the impact that they feel like this has on their work is going to be way better than listening to me for a little while longer. So I don't know who wants to start up there and and kind of share their piece on why this matters. Abby. Ellen. >> Sure. >> Abby. >> Sure. >> Okay. So certification wasn't simply spotlighting what our communities have already done just to receive recognition. Um while this is of course part of becoming certified, more notably there was an in-depth evaluation of where we can go from here and how we can improve our welcoming standards. So the audit interview experience came shortly after I became I I began my employment here with the city of North Liberty. Um in preparation for the interview, I got to assess what the city has been doing and what departments are doing to actively um be welcoming places for our residents. Um, the review process gave me a great appreciation for what Johnson County is doing and more importantly working with my colleagues up here and the Welcoming America experts. It also gave me inspiration for what's next. So, um, I'm looking forward to improving our city's language access program, strengthening the partnerships that we have with our local nonprofits, and working toward a meaningful welcome week 2026. Um, in my role with uh the city of Iowa City, I do neighborhood uh outreach. And during welcoming week, uh two of the neighborhood associations were very gung-ho and excited to participate in uh welcoming week. So, hosting community events um where their neighbors uh were coming to a park or actually uh this event right here, the East Side Neighborhood Association um creating welcoming signs um that um [clears throat] had artwork on the back um and uh just words of celebration um and whatnot. It it truly showed to me um that folks from all over uh the community are truly welcoming, right? Like um they they wish to um uh celebrate and include and um meet one another. Um and so being a part of this um team uh and knowing that day in day out I'm meeting with community leaders uh who want to know their neighbors uh who want to um be a part of something bigger um than just their household, just uh the folks that they know. Um it it really solidified that the work [clears throat] and the mission [snorts] and the drive uh for uh community members uh correlates with what um nonprofits are doing, what uh our local government agencies are doing. Um, and so I I think it just speaks to the fact that everything's in line um with the desire to be a welcoming um community and that Jonathan County is doing it quite well. >> Yeah. Um so for Greater Iowa City, you know, a year ago, we were still a relatively new organization trying to find out which lanes to go in or what projects to jump into. and welcoming week was a good kickstarter to this and also Johnson County's inclusive economic development plan. Um that plan kind of guides greater Iowa City's inclusive economic development work. So this was a perfect opportunity to jump in and support where we can. Um greater Iowa City typically in the past or before we merged typically in the past we dealt with more businesses and this is kind of a different nonprofit social service lane. So jumping in and supporting will be amazing the next coming years. And I will also say on a personal level the the full day audit was absolutely incredible. Um 13 organizations not including the steering committees organizations represented all in one day was amazing. The nonprofit social service world [clears throat] is always just go go go and they've kind of just had like 30 minutes to an hour to just brag about themselves and the work they do and they do absolutely incredible work and a lot of work. So to hear them and to see everyone smile when they're talking about their own work was amazing. I think one of the big things that came out was the for me learning about all of this work that's going on, learning so much about organizations that I thought I knew some about even I learned um little more details of what they're doing. um the the connecting of these organizations with each other, the people that are doing this work. Um and also the the audit report that we got from Welcoming America came with a lot of really interesting helpful little tips about ways to um to improve what we are doing and where we go from here with this work. Yeah, I'll echo um everything the committee said. I uh worked in the nonprofit sphere here before I ended up at Johnson County and I learned a lot about a lot of organizations that I thought I knew quite well. So, the next steps um [clears throat] in late February, we'll be celebrating all of the organizations and the groups that helped make this year's certification a reality. Um, we also hope to host an even bigger communitywide uh celebration in September that aligns with this year's welcoming week, which always happens in uh September. Um, the certification lasts 4 years, so we hope to make way on our strategic road map at that point in time um and either reertify at the onear level or see if it makes sense to pursue um a higher star designation. Um and again this collaborative approach sets the foundation for how we would like to proactively work together to understand and respond to different types of community need. Um and so the plan is that through these quarterly meetings we hope to build that up um not only with the organizations that obviously supported us through the certification process but kind of having that pulse on the true community need as it changes and shifts and being able to prioritize what what might need a a quicker response. So the long-term goal is to ensure that lasting impact and so that comes from being focused on ongoing evaluation. We think the reertification process is a great spot for that. Um continuing to strengthen partnerships. Again, we had a hard time picking um what evidence we wanted to submit and so that we know that we can continue to support and leverage those relationships and to building up some uh bigger structures to make a bigger impact and enhancing those continuous improvement strategies. I think the great part of having taken this framework is that it very clearly uh creates a roadmap of how we can move forward if we choose to do so. Um but it also aims to create this infrastructure for how uh community and community orgs can work collaboratively to leverage the work that's already being done um to achieve broader community goals and making sure that all of that aligns. So, your support, I love always ending with a big ask, but continuing to champion um these welcoming values, um leading conversations within your organizations to align policy and resources to this framework. I think the best part is that we have representatives from the three major cities and some other organizations that participate. Um I'm always accessible, too, if you'd like to connect with me. But there are opportunities to emphasize local priorities and these efforts support residents, schools, businesses, civic institutions, workforce development, and community trust, much to Kelly's wonderful point. Um, and uh, this also supports accountability and transparency of this work. Um, we go into public service because we believe that that's where we are meant to serve. Um, and so part of that comes with accountability and transparency. And so being able to um have you be a part of that journey we think is really important as well. So I do want to thank um all of the cities and the organizations that helped make this a reality. It um was kind of a pipe dream when we first found out of the designation cuz it felt really big um and all of the stars kind of aligned for us to pursue it. And so I'm really grateful for the work um that everyone has done to make this a reality. But also wanted to share it with you as a point of pride for all of you. Um your communities are a part of Johnson County. the work that you do day in and day out um is very much uh shown through that audit process and so we're grateful for that word as well. Any questions? >> Yes. >> Where can we find the report for the audit? >> Yeah, so the formal report has not been made public yet. You all are first stop in actually making this public that Johnson County has received this designation and we will build up kind of external communications from there. But we wanted to make sure um that our elected officials in the area were able to uh get that first glimpse first peak. >> I'm sorry. What I meant to say was thank you. Incredible [laughter] job. Yes. I really just wanted to see the audit. I mean, it would be incredible to read, you know, what [clears throat] I always say, you know, the embarrassment of riches that we have when it comes to our nonprofits and, you know, the welcoming atmosphere that we have, but I would really love to just, you know, read what the audit had, especially knowing so many of you who who have been in the, you know, in the county for so long. It's amazing to see that you all were also inspired and also um surprised by what you didn't know. So, I'm I'm looking forward to reading that. >> Yeah. And we're really grateful. We uh highlighted our social services department, our public health department. I want to say our auditor's office for their community ID program. Um so a lot of internal external stuff and yeah, we're absolutely really proud of it and excited to see how we can grow it. >> Lovely. >> Thank you very much. >> That was graceful as I usually [laughter] am. Uh the next item on the agenda is just proposed dates and hosts uh for these future meetings. Um yes, we don't probably have a lot to say about it, but if anybody has any conflicts, please uh share them with us now or in the future and I will uh softly entertain a motion to actually before are there any other comments before we get out of here? >> Thanks for hosting. >> My pleasure. Thank you all for coming up. Is there a motion to adjourn? You want to fire that one up? >> Make a motion. >> All right. Second. >> Sounds good, Lisa. Hey, how about all in favor say I. >> I.