Title: North Liberty Library Board of Trustees on April 20, 2026
Published: 2026-04-21 12:20:07
Video ID: Y7jAlSsUQj8

Call this meeting of the North Liberty Library Board of Trustees to order. First item on the agenda is public comment. Seeing no one in the gallery, move to the next item, approval of minutes. Looking at the January minutes, do I have a motion to approve the meetings from the minutes from the January meeting? Move to approve the January minutes. Do I have a second? I will second. I wrote them. So I couldn't remember if I was here to be honest. All in favor, say I. I. I. All opposed, say nay. Hearing no nays, the January minutes are approved. Next item on the agenda is staff introduction. We have Corey and Kayla from adult services and youth services speaking to not to us tonight about multi-generational programming. Thank you for joining us. Hello. Hi. You guys hear us okay? Sick. This is like right in my face. >> [laughter] >> I am short. But perfect. So, we are here to talk, as you said, to talk about multi-generational programming. Also, before we get kicked things off, happy National Frog Month. >> [laughter] >> Let's get rockin' and rollin' here. Uh so, those of you who don't know me, my name is Kayla, they/them. I'm the youth and teen services librarian, and I have been there since November of 2018. And I'm Corey, I'm the assistant adult services librarian, she/her, and I have been at the library since October of 2018. Perfect. Yeah, so before we get too far into multi-generational programming, I just want to talk about an event that we had back in February, which is senior science day. Uh so, this is part of our regular rotation of 55 plus uh connection activities. Uh usually on the second Tuesday of every month, we do a craft, but I wanted to mix things up a little bit. I saw a retirement home on TikTok who did science experiments with their seniors, and I knew that our regulars would love to do something like that. However, it has been a really long time since I've done any science experiments. But, our youth and teen department has an array of science experiments ready to go from their various STEAM programs that they do with kids all the time. So, Kayla is able to co-host our 55 plus connections uh on that particular Tuesday. Uh and it went really well, as you can tell from the pictures, everybody is having a blast. Uh they did not have to wear the science goggles, but they really, really wanted to. >> [laughter] >> Um this is kind of a good example of how well our departments work together, despite, you know, I work with adult services and Kayla works with the kids. Um at our library, we kind of have to work together for a lot of things because we have a small staff and we are doing like a huge amount of programs uh every month. So, everybody does their part and chips in, even if it's not their program, uh even if it's not even in their age group that they work with. We all do a really good job uh of working together that way. And even though we have to do that because of our staff size, I think bigger libraries would really benefit from doing something similar because it really does boost communication between departments. Uh it allows us all to know what everybody else is doing, uh and that allows for better word-of-mouth marketing. And we're all really cool. And we're all really cool. >> [laughter] >> Um but what is multi-generational programming? Does anyone Does anyone have familiar? Sick. Um So, it's also known as intergenerational programming or cross-generational programming. The cool kids call it cross-gen. So, if you hear us saying cross-gen, that's what we're referring to. And according to the National Council on Aging, it's activities or programs that increase cooperation, interaction, or exchange between any two generations. It involves the sharing of skills, knowledge, or experience between the old and the young. All right, it's time for class participation. We want you guys to tell us what you think some of the importance and impact of multi-generational programming is, and then we'll see we'll see if you're right. >> [laughter] >> Who'd like to go first? Sharing of the oral history. I mean, throughout time, oral history become an important way to share traditions. It gets lost a little bit in the modern age, but we want to have that. Sharing oral history. Yeah, I love that. That's not even one that we thought of. >> It's not. I love that. >> [laughter] >> Anyone else? You can get a prize, too. >> [laughter] >> Breaking down stereotypes. Yes. That's mine. >> [laughter] [laughter] >> Anyone else? You'll have another chance to participate at the end if you can't think of anything now. >> [snorts] >> No, that's really good. That is really good. All right, what let's get into the the reasons that we had listed. We'll just kind of do a brief overview of those. Oh, is it me? >> [laughter] >> One of the things that we had uh thought about is it promotes family bonding. Um North Liberty is such a family-oriented town, as we all know. Uh according to the US 2020 census, 29.5% of our population is under 18, and 15.4% of our population is over the age of 55. So, we have a wide wide range of people living in North Liberty um who can kind of all come together at these library programs, regardless of age. So, it makes sense to have family uh programs. Yes. And you actually hit this one. Um they learn and interact with each other. It gives La la la. It gives the different generations opportunities to learn and interact with each other, which increases social acceptance and reduces age-based stereotyping. It also instills a stronger sense of community, and it supports the value of libraries as an educational and cultural resource for everybody, and it promotes lifelong learning. You know you're going to have a program for every stage of your life at the library. It also shows that library programs aren't just for kids. I think a lot of people see libraries as story time, and that's it, when there's a plethora of programs we offer. Um it also We We're librarians, so we did a little bit of research. So, thank you for listening to my stats. Um >> [laughter] >> it decreases isolation and helps with loneliness. In 2023, the US Surgeon General issued an advisory declaring an epidemic of loneliness and isolation contributing to a multitude of negative consequences. And research shows that remaining socially engaged can improve these outcomes. And 90 92% of Americans believe that inter intergenerational activities can help reduce loneliness across all ages, which I thought was really cool. And we have these resources if you're interested, cited at the end of this presentation, if you want to know more, and Jenny can send you over the slides. After we send them to Jenny. >> [laughter] >> All right, let's look at some examples of some cross-gen programming that we have already done and get a chance to show off some fun pictures that we got. Yes. This is also me. All right. [laughter] Last summer, we did board games with the Adult Hand, um which is this organization based out of Des Moines that brings like 200 games, and they have a co-host on site that teaches um how to play the games, picks out games for you guys to try. It's fantastic. We had 31 attendees at this program, and we saw a variety of age groups from Can I do this? Nope, I can't. Tragic. From all teens, as you can see in the upper right corner, to all adults in the upper left corner, and then a combination of families from like grandparents down to younger kids. I think that's the bottom left. Um so, it was really cool to see all these different groups of people coming together at this program. There's one person there who knows how to play 200 games? Yes. Yep, that's the man standing in the middle on the top left. He And he's really like really passionate about it, too. They have such a good range of age games, too. Like they bring them for like 4-year-olds up to however many years old. >> [laughter] >> Um and obviously this event was very successful, so we are bringing it back again this summer if you guys want to join us. >> join us. All right, the next one we have is Book Talk Bingo. Show of hands, who knows what Book Talk is? You got two. Okay. If you're not familiar with Book Talk, are you familiar with TikTok? Yes. Okay. So, Book Talk is the nickname for the community of people on TikTok who pretty much just talk about books all day. Uh and Book Talk books are books that are very popular within the Book Talk community. So, we hosted a bingo night for teens and adults, and at this bingo night uh the winners all got to pick out a copy of a book that is popular on Book Talk. Uh the books were graciously donated by the North Liberty friend the North Liberty Library Friends organization. I think they donated about 35 books for us to use, uh and so everybody got to go home with a book, even if they didn't win. Um And of course, we had uh cookies and lemonade to lure people in, cuz that's how you get people in the library with snacks. >> [laughter] >> And then they stay for everything else. Uh and we also had a good makeup of teen like just teen groups, just adult groups, and then teen and adult groups, just like with the Adult Hand. Book Bedazzling. So, we did this program just two Fridays ago. We We remembered to put the photos in, which is fantastic. That was on April 10th, and it was a It was a success. We limited it to teens and adults, like for the one you just talked about, but talk bingo. Um and we continue to see that same makeup of like the teens, the adults, and those groups coming together, which seems to be the norm, which we really thought was cool. Um so attendees brought a book or a couple as you can see, and they bedazzled them. We had a slideshow playing in the back of future events, and then we decided you can't really see this in the bottom left, but we decided to put on the Artemis 2 splashdown. That was happening at the same time, and it was awesome how enthralled. You can kind of see everyone just like staring at the screen. It was great. Um and we have extras of this of all of the supplies, so we're probably going to do this one again in the future as well. All right, let's talk about some upcoming programs that we are doing as crash gem programs. The first is the summer reading kickoff, which is technically crash gem every year because everybody is welcome. Everybody can participate in the summer reading program. Uh something new that we have incorporated in starting last year is that we have started doing bingo or another more adult geared activity at the summer reading kickoff just to kind of have something for parents to do so that they're not just standing around watching their kid on the bounce house. Um and it's also great because it works for kids who maybe want a little bit more something a little less stimulating than bounce house and sprinting around the yard. Um so it gives people kind of a nice quiet corner of the event to hang out. Uh turns out everybody loves bingo, so we are doing plant this summer as well as that fits with our summer reading theme a plant a seed read. Uh so this will be just like the book talk bingo except for instead of going home with a book you get to go home with a potted plant. So that'll be really fun if you're a plant lover, be sure to join us. And then we are doing more bingo in the fall. We are doing another round of book bingo. We might do a different genre of book than book talk uh books. Uh but clearly everybody loves bingo including Herky the Hawk. >> [laughter] >> Um so here are some of our ideas for future multigenerational programming, um but we would love to hear what your ideas are. If you guys have any. It's your your chance to win a frog. >> [laughter] >> What's one shot book club? One shot book club, so that's kind of instead of like an ongoing meeting of of book club like oh we pick a book every month and we meet up. It's more like okay, we're going to pick like a juvenile book. We're going to just do a a one-off where everybody reads this book and we get together or you know, it something that both older adults or any age adults and the kids will enjoy so it'll kind of bring them together for that and just kind of try one-off instead of like trying to get everybody to meet every month. >> [laughter] >> Did you get a frog already? Okay. >> [laughter] >> Gold star participation. I don't have more ideas, but I think that these ideas are amazing. Thank you. Do you have any questions about any particular ones? I think the show and tell will be super interesting to see [clears throat] what the different generations bring for their show and tell. That'll be really cool. I really like that one. >> Yeah. It kind of hearkens back to that oral history. Yep. Oh, I get a frog? I didn't even really participate, but thank you. I love it. Is it national frog month because I don't know why it's national frog month. It just is. >> [laughter] >> Every month should be national frog month. Our our >> [snorts] >> teen lit crate theme this month is is frogs. [clears throat] It's ribbit. >> I'm really sad that we didn't do that for the adult lit crate. What is? February 29th is national frog day. Really? Oh, cuz it's it's leap year. Oh, very good. >> [laughter] >> Your dad's terrible, wasn't it? >> [laughter] >> I'll be really proud of what you to go home I loved it. They know that my jokes are terrible. >> [laughter] >> Do you guys [snorts] have any frog, but have you have the library ever done that um what is it like the silent book club? Like Iowa City has like the rotating one where you show up and you read? >> You just read. >> Yeah, so >> Quiet and they do like a social hour and then the quiet time. So we did try that once. Uh it was during open library hours. Um so we didn't have a ton of participation. Sometimes it was hard to tell if somebody was part of the book club or not cuz they're just sitting around reading. Um so we did have that once and I think because it was during open hours, it might not have garnered as much interest. Um I've been thinking about hosting it after hours and seeing if that kind of has some appeal to it cuz people love to be in the library after it's closed. It's just very magical. Uh so we might we might bring that back. Kind of along the same lines, um I did this myself like hosting an admin {slash} homework night or or evening where um it's it's especially helpful for people with ADHD to side by side work or body doubling. Um and that could be kind of fun. Also like a way for kids to have access to, you know, adults if there's questions or whatever. Yeah, give people just like math skills a test on it. I have a math [laughter] question. Where do you do my homework? I don't know. Any other questions for us? No. Thank you for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. Here are resources. All right, you've been great, folks. Thank [laughter] you guys so much. Next item on the agenda, it's the library director report. All right. I am trying to figure out how to run that thing and it's not going to let me, so I'm just going to take notes. And that will be fine. Okay. So, do you want me to start with the budget? Did I put budget on there? Budget first. So, budget. We are as always doing really well. We're at 70% for our total budget at the at this time of year it's usually 75. Um that will change. I think we're going to um spend a little money here coming up. One of the things that we haven't done yet is expense um some of our money toward the ebooks our whole ebook budget the 40 that's $40,000 will be expended very shortly to go um to be encumbered with with our ebook collection cuz we're getting really low with our overdrive um account, so I'll be adding that money in actually this week uh to be approved by Ryan and get shifted over. We are also going to be purchasing um another ebook uh database called Palace project, which is through Lyrasis. That ebook I think I probably talked to you guys about it in the past, but that ebook um database allows for multi-use simultaneous access and has a a lot of Spanish titles um and other uh brand uh Andrew will be able to purchase things to go in that collection as well. And it also can integrate with OverDrive, so folks can use OverDrive to find the ebooks um which is kind of cool. Um they're really great to work with and it's a growing company, so we're excited to add um that to the collection hopefully by the end of this fiscal year. Um Now everything's good unless anybody anyone has any questions about where we are there. No. Operations? All right. Um we just completed all of our full-time staff evaluations. Well, actually all of our evaluations are almost done. Um the supervisors have completed all of theirs. Uh Kelly has a couple more uh with her part-timers. It's just a little bit harder to to wrangle them and get them in when they're when they're working so many different schedules. I think she's about done. I think she's doing a couple of them via Zoom that she's not able to catch um and that was approved by HR, so we'll be done with those this month. Um those have typically been in January and we shifted them this year to April, which was actually really easy and lovely for the rest of us. We have a brand new software that we're using to do them. It is so much better. It's it's such a better program and more accurate um than what it was. There's still some things that we think that would make it even more effective for us at the library, but it's pretty good. We're we're happy with it. Um and HR worked with each department to have those um uh those scores for what we think our library specific goals and things too, so we're excited to see that uh that new software being implemented. Um I just watched a really cool webinar last week about internal communication plans uh to help improve internal communication. So I am all excited to begin um >> [snorts] >> kind of creating a plan. The first step to that is to send out a survey, which I'm both excited and afraid to do um to ask the staff about their feelings about how things how they feel about our communication um internal communication and where they think we where they are getting their information right now, where they think there's holes, um where we could improve it, how we could support them more. Um there's several questions and they and the um they shared a lot of information and a lot of um tables and charts and things for us to use uh uh when at the webinar. I'm really excited to put it into play. Uh so, I'll be working through that and hopefully starting a communication communication plan that can be sustainable. Um it will include as part of the onboarding just here's here's a table of what you can expect when you come in here. Here's how you can expect communication to look and here is where you'll find specific things. There's so many ways we communicate now with Teams. We communicate with um email and then we have a SharePoint account, you know, we have SharePoint. So, we have all these different things and I think we've landed on a pretty I There were some things that they talked about best practices that I feel like we're doing um pretty well, but also there's still questions about when we use certain when we use things. When do we use this or when do we use that? Um so, figuring out those things out and kind of dialing in a little bit more, I think will be exciting. Um and then sharing that out. So, this is where you're where you're going to find information from your supervisors. This is where you're going to find quicker information that's maybe more short-term. So, those types of things. Um I'm excited to see what we can do with that and hopefully improve. Um one thing they did say is that that is it is not true that you can that you can never communicate too much. That you can communicate too much. That is true. Um and I think I probably know that cuz I am a big communicator and I probably sometimes communicate too much. Um [snorts] So, I'll be excited to see where that leads us and I'll be sharing as we do that just cuz I think it's pretty cool. Um Then just operations, building maintenance. We are uh Josh Harrison, who is our facilities manager for the city now, our new facilities manager this last year, will be um just took a uh initiative to look at our our ugly green awnings on our building, faded awnings, and to get some um quotes for painting those. That spiraled into a little bit more as we were talking about it that there's also some cloth awnings fabric awnings on the building. Um and then we talked about whether they should be fabric or paint. Then we started walking around the building and noticed that the windows are not in the best shape on the outside. Um >> [laughter] >> So, now we're looking at maybe getting some quotes for windows to be repainted on the outside um and match because some of them are white and some of them are purple and some of them are silver. So, that is hopefully going to be coming about. Uh the awnings will be painted black um and they will all be painted. I don't think that will that I don't know what they're going to do about the fabric ones. Those are on the pool and I think maybe there's one in the back, but um those are not on the library side of um but we'll we're going to be consistent throughout. I did approach Russ Ryan Rusnak, who's our planner for the city, and talk with him about it and we were leaning toward black. Um that was one of the colors that I had kind of as I was investigating um seen was a kind of recommended color for that kind of a classic color and he said if you hadn't said it, I would have told you to do black. So, I think that's what's going to end up. Also, Guy, our parks director, is is also um had recommended black, so that is the direction we're going. So, hopefully that will be coming soon. Uh I think they'll be pulling them off the building, which will be interesting. So, we'll see how that goes. Um and then we are getting some new signage in the building as soon as I can uh get them some pictures and get things started with that. The peo- the people who did our original signus I reached out signage I reached out to him last week um and he thinks he has all the um information he needs if I just send him pictures. He thinks he can give me a quote from that. Um I will probably be able to I won't probably get other quotes simply because we've already used them and they have the the right materials to do what we need them to do. Um so, we're going to do a sign uh we're going to do a library of things. We've already been building that collection. We just haven't got it completely established. Um I am not a fan of the library of things as a a name because it doesn't mean anything. Um so, we're going to call it Take and Try um just because that's mostly what it is. It's items that people might want to bring home and try before they buy um either because they're expensive or they may not, you know, they may not know if they like that. Um or also because maybe they only need it once a year or twice a year. Uh so, that those are going to be the types of items that'll be in there. Um it's going to go in the alcove where the cake pans are. The cake pans are still going to be there. There's a few of them still there and that's what the sign has said for a long time. So, it's overdue to be replaced. Um We're excited about that. Uh and then just the legislative update as I've been giving um to you every month. Um this is from the ILA Government Affairs. They have been watching um Senate file 432 4 2432, which is the Board of Health uh Department Board of Health Department bill, which is um the library bills that I'd shared with you before, which was the big omnibus bill that did not make the funnel um got tagged as an amendment onto this public health bill or this health board bill. Uh who knows why? Um it's just the place they decided to put it. From what I can gather from friends who know people, uh it doesn't have a lot of legs and they don't think it'll get the support that's it needs to pass. Um so, we're hopeful that it won't pass uh but that's where it is. It hasn't been scheduled and we're just not we just don't know. We don't know what'll happen with it. Um but like I said, we're hopeful. And then uh the on the federal level, they still have they're still have that bill um in the house for the uh Stop Sexualization of Children Act. Again, that is um advanced out of committee now. Um but who knows what will happen with it. And then re- since I wrote this um a court sent back uh House file or Senate file one of 496, whichever one that is, um to the lower courts. The lower courts had uh basically suspended it saying that they didn't think it's been on hold because they didn't think it um was constitutional. The the other court sent it back saying that they feel that it meets the criteria. Um ALA's lawyers attorneys have said that it it there's precedents for everything that the lower court has already said about it. Um they're basically saying that it's it's it's in a school, so it should follow school I the schools um that the school protection should be there. So, the schools don't have to um whatever they don't have to do. Angel, I'm looking at you because maybe you know what I'm talking about. I'm just not coming to my mouth. Um Like in terms of their protection? >> Yeah, in terms of not having to follow the com- the the First Amendment right, their First Amendment at the school while they're in school. >> Okay. Okay. Um so, I I did get a sort of a a reading from ALA uh their their um just just what kind of their interpretation of it and they don't believe that it it's merited that they sent it back, but they did. Um so, right now the the schools should be still pulling the books off the shelves. Um it doesn't mean that it's going to pass. It just means that it's in limbo [snorts] again. Basically, so. We'll see. It's just going to keep being a fight, I think, for a while. Um and then just a strategic plan update and Scott can speak to this a little bit. Scott Clemens got to go was at our um training last Was it last Was that just last week? Feels like it was a long time ago. Couple weeks ago. Um so, got to see Shir Michael Holman speak there. I feel he he did a one of his sessions um after he spoke to the full group on design thinking. Um he did a session on design thinking and as he was speaking, it just made so much sense to me that that is what we do with our strategic planning all the time the way the way it's um working the way he applied it. So, I called him and I said, "What do you think about coming back and doing some work with us on design thinking um around our strategic planning?" And he said, "Let's do." So, I think he'll be coming back. I have to talk to the friends because um he doesn't come for free. So, we'll have to see if the friends is willing to uh to pay for him. I think they will. Uh but I'll be asking them that question tomorrow. Um but hopefully in the fall he'll come back and work with us and we'll be inviting you to participate in some of those um pieces as well. I'll also be working through some pretty detailed community assessment pieces, which he has offered to assist with um in the in the interim and also at that um at that time. He asked me to send him all of our documents that we have so far and I did that and got some good feedback from him and he said his his thoughts are whirling now, so we'll see where that leads. Um and then just uh talking about the quarterly staff staff training. Uh we had about 120 staff there from Linn and Johnson County. Cedar Rapids was the only library that wasn't in attendance because they were opening a new building this month. Um and Iowa City had a little less than they probably normally would have had because they were transitioning to a new um integrated library system this month. So, lots going on in library world. Um [snorts] and then we had Scott come and and ten attend and then two board members were our two friends board members were there as well. So, we had Shir Michael Holman attend and then Ashley Stewart, who is with Every Library, came and talked to us about advocacy. I think they both did fantastic jobs and I felt that both of their presentations really um complemented each other. Uh so that and and not by by design. They didn't speak to each other about it, which was kind of cool. Um and Ashley did say that she was changing things as she Michael was talking. She was like So, um we had already had a lot of positive feedback and one thing that I thought was really positive was it when I was talking to our staff this week at our staff meeting or last week at our staff meeting, one of them said that they felt that um we took the feedback from last year and applied it to what we did this year and they felt a lot this year was more coordinated and more um organized. So, that was great. Um they'll be sending it We'll be sending a survey out to all the attendees, too. Um and then doing a little bit of a debrief, but Scott, do you have anything to add to that? No, it was wonderful like the the year before. I would encourage any of you when you have they have the day off can take the day off next year to have to participate. Yeah. Um and then just the staff reports if anyone has any thing they would like any questions about those. I will say that um just point out that the teen dialogue uh for the Cortico grant that Nick is doing, they've had seven conversations so far and at least the two that I know about um those teens wanted to stick around and talk for a longer. They were really excited about it. Um and the person Ali, who's the ambassador from the University of Iowa, got selected to be the ambassador for Cortico to continue the work. So, one of two in the country. She'll be one of two um student ambassadors continuing working with them. And she also got um I found out today that she got a scholarship to go to the Association for Rural and Small Library conference this year. So, that's pretty cool. Um they've they're doing a lot of good work. I He was really having a lot of anxiety about getting teens to participate and it's gone really well and I think he's feeling a lot better now. Um so, that's great. Um And then I'm also really excited about Kelly's uh work uh the public services on the LT uh the ALA grant. That announcement came out today in our in our social media um for the city and the library uh and the work she's going to do with the art program uh with adults with disabilities, I think it's going to be really fun. So. Website will be launching at the end of the summer. New website. And if you all did not see the Peeps diorama, you should check it out cuz they were amazing. Yeah. And happy National Library Week. There's a really great post coming out tomorrow. Next item on the agenda, policy review. First policy review is the proctoring policy. We did not have any specific recommendations from staff. Do I have a motion to approve the proctoring policy? I move to approve the proctoring policy as set forth in the packet. Have a second? I'll second. All in favor say I. I. >> I. All opposed say nay. Hearing no nays, the proctoring policy is approved. Next policy is the volunteer policy. These are pretty easy ones. And there were no changes to this one recommended from staff. >> We did not have anything for either of these. I'll move to approve the volunteer policy as set forth in the board packet. Have a second? I'll second. All in favor say I. I. >> I. All opposed say nay. Hearing no nays, the volunteer policy is approved. Next item is new business. Is there any new business to discuss? No. Do I have a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. We are adjourned.