Title: North Liberty City Council meeting March 24, 2026 (Special and Regular Session)
Published: 2026-03-25 12:34:19
Video ID: 4ts13KaJwgE

are working on that with uh how it works. >> I woke you guys up out there, didn't I? >> Hey, this is the uh Tuesday, March 24th uh special session. Uh it's a budget session required here now by the state for the last couple of years. Uh the only thing on this agenda is to hold a public hearing in regards to uh our proposed budget. We will then have another hearing uh next month uh to do the same thing. So, uh, with this Tracy, could I have roll call, please? >> For here, Lyel, >> here. >> Park >> here. >> Smith >> here. >> Wesson >> here. Thank you. Item three is approval of the agenda. Could I just have a motion for approval, please? >> So, moved. >> Second. >> Moved by Way and second, and by Smith. Are there any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. >> I. opposed. Agenda is passed. Then item four is the FY2026-2027 budget. And uh before we get into the public hearing, I just wanted to ask Ryan if he could provide a couple of highlights for us. >> Sure. Uh thanks for the opportunity. Uh your packet includes about 45 pages of of B uh budget documents. Most of that consists of our budget model and our capital improvements plan, which we've spent ample time on uh in January. So, I I don't plan to uh go through that page by page, but I do want to just talk about a few of the highlights uh that the FY27 budget will accomplish uh starting July 1. Uh first, we continue to uh um look at our staffing needs and consider our staffing needs. And this this budget includes two full-time firefighters. This has been a uh a goal of the city council and and of the fire chief and our team to uh continue to uh uh better staff that department. As you know, they have a a hybrid take a hybrid approach right now with uh volunteers or what we call paid per call members, part- timerrs and full-timers. And so, uh this budget is is uh um helping them move along with their staffing plan. We're also adding two full-time laborers specifically to uh uh help us uh address the needs in our um sewer collection system. So, this is uh the storm water and wastewater collection systems. And so we'll have a little division that uh Michael will create with uh uh two uh employees that will specifically focus on maintenance, cleanout uh and really anything related to uh the storm water collection system and the sanitary uh collection system as well. And then lastly, I want to point out not a full-time position but uh a halftime position and that's the event lead at the uh HIV center. uh that will help will help us with uh uh navigating various events there. And that facility as you all know is is being well used and uh this is really will be our first full year in operation. So it'll be a learning year for us. And again our goal is that this is uh close to a revenue revenue neutral um operational uh budget. Uh but of course we're subsidizing it a bit this year and um the the short time we were open last year until we uh uh get our uh get our feet under ourselves uh at that facility. Moving on then of course we have the local option sales tax revenue. This is a new revenue for us. We're anticipating in this FY27 budget about 2.8 million in revenue uh this fiscal year which again will start July 1. So, uh, tax collection on that'll start July 1. We'll probably see the first revenue roll in in August or or September. 90% of this revenue is currently slated for the, uh, fire station, uh, project. Uh, and then the other 10% uh, will be looking for direction from the city council, uh, as to how you want to allocate that uh, in in future years. And then I just want to uh touch base on uh a number of capital projects uh that uh will happen this year. And it's it's really an impressive list. Uh and I think it it goes to the the quality of life that this city council has has um been um uh advocating for for for a long time. Uh so we have just to and these are really what I would consider the larger projects. I'm not going to go through that whole list of all the equipment and and some of the smaller issues, but excuse me, a couple of them uh that I did want to mention. One is the remodeling of the aquatic center locker rooms. Uh this is a probably our most heavily used area in the pool or in the rec center. Uh and so uh those those facilities are dated and this will be a great project to to get those updated. Of course, we've been talking about the Cherry Street Firehouse, and we'll start to see that come to fruition this year. It'll be a multi-year project, of course. Uh but that will be a big uh a big uh task that our team is excited to to move forward with that project. We also have the expansion of the parks and water maintenance shops. Again, these will help uh help us temporarily locate the fire department while uh the fire station is is um demolished and the new firehouse is being constructed. East Forever Green Road is is a project that is um is uh crossing uh fiscal years. Um we're in design for that now, but that will be mostly constructed in FY27. We'll be going out for bid for that here shortly. Again, this is the start of connecting Forever Green Road over to uh Deuke Street. We will have our final phase of Ranchaw Way. This has again been a a 20-year project. Uh the mayor and I were uh uh were around this table when the the master plan was approved for that um nearly 20 years ago. Uh and so it'll be exciting uh to to see that project come to fruition. Again, we have about $3 million in federal money uh for that project. So, uh we have uh some assistance from our our federal partners. Uh we have a excuse me, a sanitary sewer upgrade project. Again, this is um an area uh this is a I would call it's not a huge project, but it's one that's important and will help us uh make sure we don't have um wastewater bottlenecked within our current system. And this this uh um this particular project will be down uh south of of the golf course and and span between Ranchaw Way and Front Street. Uh and then lastly and and probably the biggest um project is our upgrade to our water treatment plant and our water treatment facilities. Uh we're in design for that as you all know now and that you'll see a bulk of that project underway this fiscal year. So quite a list an expansive list of of projects. Uh meanwhile, we'll continue to uh provide the the services and the programs that uh uh and the in the events that we have been doing for many years that that seem to be uh pretty popular with our community. Last note I would uh make about the FY27 budget is just our tax rate. Uh uh everyone uh in the county, everyone in the state should have received a letter from their particular county. Um, this is a state form uh that frankly is not well drafted and uh there's a lot of numbers on there. Doesn't say a whole lot though. And so I want to point some of that out. Uh I would also note though that the state's trying to correct this. There's uh there's a bill in the legislature legislature right now that um would revise this form and and uh hopefully make it a little bit more eligible for um or legible, excuse me, for for the folks who receive it. North Liberty's tax rate is proposed to increase this year by 1.3%. That's about 15 cents per thousand dollars of value. Uh the the specific increase here is really uh our debt service levy uh is going up because of the capital projects uh that we've uh uh completed in the last few years including uh some trail work, the city hall, the police station. Uh but our operational levy um has remained steady for the last few years and will continue to remain steady this year. And even though that levy remains steady, we're still able to add uh people uh for example in the fire in the fire department to help provide those services. Uh the last thing I would just mention is I as I said the the levy goes up by the the percentage of the levy goes up by 1.3%. But really the individual property taxes are going to vary based on the type of property it is whether it's residential or commercial. and what the individual properties assessment does in in a given year when you what I tried to provide in the pack it was a snapshot and this is assuming no value changes uh that that I have we haven't dug down that frankly that the county is the one who handles the assessments we haven't dug into that information but based on that information along with the roll back the residential roll back um the the the valuation uh of someone's the the tax valuation on someone's home uh will reduce slightly this year based on the roll back. Again, I'm not the assessor have their own job and they're looking at the the assessed values. I'm just talking about the roll back. So, uh, and I tried to, that's a lot of information I'm throwing out to to the group and and to you folks, but trying to summarize that and saying that, you know, the the the proposed or the what the the state is showing as a um, you know, a 5% increase on residential property taxes, I I don't think is accurate. Uh, uh, they're they're using assumptions in here that are not entirely correct. Uh, and it's really hard to, it really is determined based on an individual property notice. So, maybe I'll stop there and uh, I'd be happy to answer questions if there are any or um, I don't have any questions. I'll just finish up that last thought. Um, in that the tax rate is something that gets the headlines. Uh, it is something that the city will be increasing as Ryan uh, noted. Uh but the state has a formula for how much of that revenue comes back to individual cities and it's called a roll back. Uh and that roll back because of that is actually going to diminish uh anything that we've done uh in raising that rate uh that'll have a net result uh to homeowners of about 4.9% 5% less. So that what you actually pay in dollars uh for tax purposes will be less um than than what you paid last year largely in due largely in part uh because of this roll back formula that the state of Iowa has in place. They've had it in place for a number of years. And um if you're interested in our packet on page 4 uh it's a nice highlight uh of of what that uh roll back has been historically and what it is this year as well. I don't have any questions for Ryan. I I asked him if he could give us a a heads up on that. Do you guys have any questions um for him? >> No, the only thing I would say is uh maybe we should the state should let Ryan make the the forms we do because his is much more understandable. So, >> yeah. Again, page four. Uh it's very helpful. With that, I'm going to open up uh the public hearing. Uh this is requirement by the state of Iowa. We'll be here as long as as needed. Um, and I'll open that public hearing regarding the proposed tax levy for the FY2627 city of North Liberty budget. Anyone with questions uh or comments or suggestions, now is the time. And I'm going to leave this open even if we don't have any participation for about five more minutes because our next council meeting uh can't start before 6:15. >> Scott Fison, Johnson County Treasurer. Just want to thank the finance department of North Liberty for all their hard work and all this stuff and especially your city administrator. I know how hard they work getting these numbers together for you guys, including um everything from residential, you know, property tax figuring to, you know, whatever you're working on as far as capital projects go. That it's really hard work, a lot of heavy lifting. So, just a special thanks to your finance department. Thank you. Feel free to look at your phones, talk to your neighbors, but we do need to keep this public hearing open uh until 6:15. Play a little elevator music girl from Epana. I'm John Deude. I live at 1316 Hancock here in North Liberty. Um, one comment I would have is it would be nice if the administrator had a microphone cuz I'm a little hard of hearing. So, I didn't catch everything that he said. So, I just wanted a clarification on a couple things. Did you say that the increase would be 5% because of a roll back at the state level, it would actually be less next year? Is that correct? >> Yeah, there are two different uh two different things that are being referred to. tax rate itself is going to go up by about 5%. Uh or so as the net result to a homeowner though, a taxpayer in the city because of the roll back formula that the state of Iowa issues for everyone, the net effect is about a 5% decrease in how much property tax you'll pay this year on average. >> So it is going up. >> Mhm. >> No, if I could I don't mean to >> That's okay. Go ahead >> to jump in here, but the the t the city's tax rate itself will go up by 1 uh 3%. >> Apologies. 15 cents. >> And so where does the other 3.7 >> That's why they're not they're not the same numbers. It's like a car versus a truck. >> Yeah. So the the the um the I I frankly I what the the this the state is not taking in they're using blanket data. They're not taking in the actual variables like the roll back which brings your your value down. Uh so it's that's why this state that's why this form is so confusing and frustrating on probably everybody's end. Uh so what uh assuming your value stays the same, you would a residential property would see a 4.7% reduction in their property tax rate in North Liberty. And that's again just for the city piece of it. >> So for the county, it would be >> I I can't speak to the to the county, but the gentleman behind you might be able to to help. Uh, so >> it's not for this hearing, but if you call my office at any time, be happy. >> Okay, I'll do that. All right. Thank you. >> And John, thanks for the reminder that Ryan needs to use his microphone. So, it's right there. He just doesn't sit close enough to it. >> Are there any other questions? >> All right. Could I entertain a I'm going to close the the public hearing on the budget and could I entertain a motion to adjourn, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Moved by Park, seconded by Forney. Are there any questions or >> I um all in favor say I. >> I. >> I. >> Opposed? Thank you. Our budget hearing is closed. If you were here just for that, now is your time to escape because we will now begin our city council meeting. So, let me welcome everybody back same day, 20 minutes later, to our uh regular session of city council. And I'll start with uh Tracy again with a roll call, please. >> I apologize. I'm trying to get the next packet open. For those of you that don't know, we're dealing with a new software. It's fabulous. It's just not intuitive yet >> in two packets and it takes a minute to close one out and open the other. So, >> um, roll call would be Fortney >> here, Liebold >> here, >> Park >> here, >> Smith >> here, >> here. >> Thank you. Item three is approval of the agenda. Don't have any changes on there. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So, moved. >> Second. >> Move by Park, seconded by Forney. Are there any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. >> Opposed? Our agenda is approved. Item four is our consent agenda. Are there any questions on there? Things that you have want to talk talk about separately. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> By for seconded by Smith. Are there any questions? All in favor say I. >> I. I. >> Opposed. Consent agenda carries. Item five is public comment. This is again an opportunity for anyone in the audience to um provide comment to council on something that's not already identified in the agenda uh with public hearing attached to it. So I will open up public comment. Good evening. My name is Greg Sig. I'm just here to introduce myself to you all. I'm a Republican candidate for the board of supervisors here in Johnson County. Uh I am the only Republican apparently according to the Gazette that is running in this district. Uh my my history is I'm originally from Cedar Rapids. So I'm a native Ian. I moved to Johnson County in 2003 after having purchased some land up by the reservoir in 1985. Uh, I'm a former police officer in Cedar Rapids. I left the police department in order to take a job with the Department of Defense. I did background investigations for security clearances for 26 years. The majority of it actually was in Iowa, the Iowa City, North Liberty area because of the university and the ROC departments for the kids going into the military and needing their top secret clearances. Although Cedar Rapids rated right up there because of Rockwell's classified defense contracts, uh, I've seen some familiar names through the my foray into this candidacy. It's the first time I've ever run for candidate of anything. Uh, I'm not the greatest public speaker. I am good oneonone because my wife says I'm the worst person to run into in a grocery store because I'll talk your ears off. I won't do that tonight. I just wanted to say that uh I'm I'm proud to be in this position to be able to get to the next position being the on the board of supervisors. I do plan on when and if I get elected, I'm going to come to these meetings as well. Uh I don't know if the current board of supervisors ever come to these or not, but I plan on coming here. I've been to Shouyville already to their council meetings, Swisser. Uh I haven't made it to Oxford yet because unfortunately everybody has their meetings on the second Tuesday of the month. And I thank you for having one on the Thursday, the fourth Thursday of the month, so that I can get in here to talk without having to wait another month or two in order to see everybody. But uh with that, I won't bother you anymore. I just wanted to say hi. I I plan on being in here not only before the election but after the election. Thank you. >> Thank you, Greg. Thanks. Nice to meet you. >> You, too. >> A year ago, uh myself, the county attorney, the county sheriff, and the county auditor came before this council made a commitment to you to visit your uh offices. uh once a year at least. Uh that was scheduled for tonight. Um but there there must been some admin mayap. Would you like me to come back again or just I've got presentations for the other elected officials who the sheriff's out sheriff and the county attorneys out county attorney and then the auditors off the east coast how to run elections. So I'd be happy to come back again or I can give you the presentation that I made for tonight. It's up to you all. I suppose public comment is meant for three minutes and I totally get that. So I'd be happy to come back again. If if you wouldn't mind, Scott, it helps to kind of move our agenda along a little bit and be efficient. I don't want to make you come back up here again, though. But it's always friends with you next time. >> For sure. All right. Well, appreciate appreciate all you guys do and thanks for your time. >> Thank you. >> Anyone else? All right, I will close the public comment time and move on to item six. >> Josh is going to take this time. Oh, we got a special guest in the audience. Josh, I'm going to move you in this cuz as you mentioned before, it didn't get put onto the agenda, but you're here. We knew you were coming. >> And I'm setting my timer. >> We are too, by the way. >> I know. Thank you. I have a presentation here I'm going to fly through, but I really My name is Josh Hammer. I'm president of Think Iowa City and the Iowa City Area Sports Commission. And I'm joined by Nick Feifer, who many of you know, uh, probably all of you know, who's our vice president of public affairs and, um, has spent a lot of time helping some of the team here in North Liberty over the last few years, particularly with Centennial Park. So, um, I just, uh, we every year about this time, we kind of go to visit all of our cities and give a little bit of an overview of, uh, what we've been up to the past year. So, again, I'm going to keep this kind of short and sweet. Uh, and in front of you, I believe Nick's already passed out uh our annual report, which you should all have uh that you can read later. And I believe everybody here, I haven't met you, Tanya, yet so nice to meet you. And uh I gave you my information, but everybody else has our information and knows us very well. And you can call us at any time. So, just briefly a little bit about uh our organization. As a reminder, we are the official destination marketing organization for Iowa City, Corville, North Liberty, University Heights. really this whole entire community and we've been around here since about 1980. We are charged with advancing economic vitality and quality of life uh for visitors and residents as Iowa's premier destination. These are the market segments that we work and do our work which is largely economic development uh individual and group leisure, tourism, conferences and meetings, amateur sports, arts and culture and certainly quality of life. um as most recently recognized here in North Liberty again with Cindial Park uh partnership that we assisted with and we're happy to do so. We're governed by a board of directors. We're a private nonprofit organization who's largely funded from hotel motel tax pass through hotel motto tax as is every one of our peers in the state and really around the country. So, uh that's we're not funded by property taxes or anything like that. Just pass through taxes that are collected in hotel rooms. This is our board. Our current chairs, Jake Moore and uh Brent Smith here obviously Aly serves and represents the city of North Liberty on our board. We do all of our work through three primary buckets. Uh sales and marketing, placemaking, and intentional community engagement. Again, I'm going to fly through this, so I'll help you to visit with you later. Um but just to give you a little bit of an overview as to the scope and size of the the type of business we interact with. Last year, we serviced uh those are groups that were in town this past year. uh 67 different organizations that had over 93,000 visitors attached to those 63 67 groups. And while they were here, they spent just short of $19 million in our community. And we closed out 2025. So we have the servicing and we also have the sales. We closed out 2025 with really a record number of future business bookings. So, uh, we anticipate in the coming years, so just over 61 different conferences and meetings, 42 different sporting events and tournaments. All of those add up to just short ofund about 145,000 visitors, 41,000 room nights, and $38 million in future direct spending. We spend a lot of time in sales and marketing in the things that we're good at and we know to be good at. Uh, we are home to the largest collection of state tournaments in the state. We get a little criticized now for that, for being uh why do we get all of the great state tournaments. Uh it was recently announced that we'll be the new home for the girls state wrestling dual tournament and that makes number 10. So we have 10 high school boys and girls state tournaments that we host. This picture below is obviously girls state volleyball. Uh we also spend a lot of time uh with Bike Iowa City and that entire brand which uh you're very familiar with. Uh, one of the big events from Bike Iowa City leaves every Wednesday night from Sugar Bottom Bikes right next door. And I participate in that regularly with their A group A, B, and C group rides. So, um, we're very, um, passionate about cycling and what it's done to this community and and, uh, both economically, but also socially. We are certainly Wrestle Town USA and we continue to leverage that. We created that brand uh, back about 15 16 years ago and now it's used pretty regularly. So whether it's the girls state tournament, boy state duels, the Dan Gable, which attracts 80 different high schools from six states, or national international events like NCAA women's wrestling we held just a couple weeks ago live on ESPN Plus, and we're going to be hosting the Pan-American Games here in just 6 weeks. We actually just hosted a big wrestling event at the Pstra, uh the U7 Panama Trials, followed by the club nationals, which was a great event. And I think I have a photo of that coming up in here. Uh, I'll skip through this one, but we're actually just notes that we're spending a lot of time pivoting to AI just as everybody else is in the information economy and and making sure and obviously the growth there is is substantial. And so we're uh we're dedicated and focused on that transition as is everybody else. placemaking. Just as we helped and supported the city of North Liberty with Centennial Park and the city of Corville with Extreme Arena and the development of that area, this next couple years, we've been spending a lot of time in the city of University Heights with a 36 acre multi-use trail plan for the piece of property just to their north and south of Carver Hawkeye Arena there on the picture on the left. We're about to fund a master plan and feasibility study for what the next phase of the Johnson County Fairgrounds can do, that very underutilized property for economic development. And we're pretty intimately involved, as is Brent, uh, who's been very engaged with the Burlington Street replacement study and making sure that as that moves forward, there are recreational opportunities tied to it for, uh, for the river. I'm going to skip through this, but it's a little video that you can go read later called Blend that we just two weeks ago won a pretty significant state tourism award at the annual conference in De Moine uh by the director of the economic development director and her team. Uh but it's essentially a video series we started that highlights some of the culinary uh riches here in North Liberty Corville. And actually this most recent one was Arn Solen. Oh, skipped that. Uh intentional community engagement is really our third bucket. Uh there still continues to be not enough local understanding or awareness of what we do. We're trying to change that. 15 years or so ago, we uh didn't really care what anybody if they knew what we did other than you all who were passing through hotel moto tax. That was really the wrong way to look at things. The more and more we have been intentionally engaged in the community, the more opportunities we've realized and uh continue to realize. Uh these are a lot of different examples. Uh we were the initial funding mechanism for the African Felgart Festival that happened in downtown Ira City. They just celebrated their second year. Uh and all of these other activities that we continue to fund or source including many in North Liberty uh with Jillian and and Nick and their team. Uh we uh spend a lot of time obviously in arts and uh we are the sponsor of free week something we're hoping to expand beyond downtown Iowa City into Corville and North Liberty in coming years which basically for an entire week of February all the events and venues are free programming in order to further engage. We uh were the people the organization that tag teamed with greater Iowa City to pass lost and fund lost. And so we're very proud of that. uh we spent a lot of time and resources and dollars towards that and obviously it uh worked very very well uh both in Iowa City Corville and and certainly here in North Liberty. So we're we were excited to be a part of that and and Nick was uh instrumental in in being one of the brains and behind that operation from the uh from the voters uh voter voter pools. There's a little picture of event we just did with USA Wrestling in uh the Pstra just down the street. But these are the last couple slides uh and then I'll end and I'm two minutes a schedule here, bud. So, um last year, just to give you some scope as to what visitors contribute, we uh saw just over $715 million that were spent in Johnson County from people that don't reside in Johnson County. Uh just over 100 million in local and state taxes. And uh locally, it contributed $6.5 million in local hotel motel tax revenue. North Liberty needs a couple more hotels. you only have one, so you're a small sliver of that. Uh, but hopefully in the coming years, there'll be a couple other hotels. For every $1 of the 25% that is all all the cities collect, 25% goes to fund our organization. The other 25% goes into other tourism quality light initiatives. Uh, we brought a return of $18.60 uh to the community. So, pretty healthy return. And that's just from our booked conferences and meetings and sales efforts. This is a historical last 10 years as to hotel motel tax collections. Uh again, you guys are very small there. You're the green at the bottom. So you could see Corville is is blue. Uh Iowa City is black. And then the one hotel the other city that also has one hotel is University Heights. And they collect uh about 450 to 500,000 a year in hotel motto tax compared to your one hotel. And that really is location and brand. um you know, sleep in and suites right on the interstate versus the courtyard by Marriott across the street from Kick Stadium and uh in the hospitals. So, what's next? Uh and then I'll kind of wrap up. I'm happy to answer a couple questions. These are some of the bigger events that are happening in the next couple months. Again, we're hosting the Pan-American Championships. It is a major major event. We will welcome 31 countries from North and from North, South, and Central America. We're working very hard right now and obviously as you can imagine running up against a lot of obstacles with visas and such, but we're confident we'll get through that and uh we'll be excited to roll out the red carpet in early May for all of these nations who will come here for the better part of a week. We also booked the Savannah Bananas. I'm sure you've heard of that. Uh those uh ticket lottery announcements will come at the end of the month. Uh they fully expect to sell out Kinnick Stadium for two consecutive days. Um and they will. Uh we were the second to only Boise State in the nation for ticket requests. Uh there were 440,000 tickets requested to uh come watch the Savannah Bananas in Kick Stadium. And then uh it's not just sports. These are some major events uh that are happening in the conferences and uh meetings market. Uh this is uh the National Criminal Defense College League which will headquarter here in June and will bring 4,000 hotel room nights over the better part of two weeks. And then in July, we will welcome the Catholic Daughters of America. Another 3,500 hotel room night business. So in just those two months, about 7,500 to 8,000 hotel rooms will be booked all over the community for these conferences. And there's quite a few more. These are just two of the highlights that I picked out over the next uh next 90 to 120 days. Thanks for all your support. I know North Liberty in the grand scheme of thing is a little is a small, but we're super excited and happy and honored to continue to represent North Liberty equally to uh to that of Corville and Iowa City. And um Brent can attest that he keeps us honest in those meetings when we talk community that North Liberty is in there as well. >> We got you in the pestra. >> You got me in the polestra. We needed it. >> Well, thanks for treating us equally. um size. We we I I can't make promises, but I think we can get you a hotel sometime here in the next couple of years, >> right? >> Thank you very much. >> Have any questions for Josh? >> Thank you both for coming up here tonight. You bet. >> Are you biking home now then? Or >> we're going to Corville cuz we've we booked Nick double booked us tonight. >> Okay. All right. >> We're heading heading down south. >> I understand. >> Thank you guys. >> Thank you, >> Josiah. I will now turn this over to you for item six, which is the engineers report. >> All right. Thank you. Three three project updates for you tonight. Uh first, the south fiber project was one we started last year. It's been on hold basically because of winter conditions, but uh we heard earlier, I think it was just at the end of last week, that they'll get started the first week in April. It's a fairly small project, but it does help uh fill out our fiber network, and they should be done with that then uh this spring. So, it'd be good to get that finished up. Um the roundabout at Forever Green and Jasper, we've talked about it a lot. I just wanted to confirm for you that we had the precon meeting and the contractor expects to start mobilizing on site next week, the first week of April. And uh there'll be a lot of setup, traffic control, some initial grading work, and then that will um move into the first phase, getting ready for some detour payment, putting in underground utilities, things like that. Um so that is coming up. And then I just wanted to point out um again, this is a Corville project, but the Forever Road extension phase one, it's a shared project with us in Corville. Corville's um leading this phase one. Uh that will be bid through the DOT in May and they've already started with some tree clearing work uh to get ahead of the bat deadlines for that project. So that is uh on track and moving forward. That said, mayor, unless there's questions. Thank you, sir. Any questions for Josiah? >> Appreciate you. >> Thanks, Ryan. I'll move to you item seven, our city administrative report. >> Thanks. I just have one item this evening and I'm going to ask Tracy to speak on another uh topic. But the one comment I wanted to make is just a reminder that April 6th is a Monday will be our uh our plan our strategic planning session with uh Karen Kurt and ECI Cog. This is a a process that we do every two years. Uh we we had a similar session with our management team a couple weeks ago that uh I thought went really well, was really productive and look forward to sharing that information with you and and having um uh further discussion about our strategic plan for the next couple years on April 6th. I've asked Tracy tonight to uh provide just a brief update on uh the ARC plan that uh we just kicked off today. Actually, >> we just finished our meeting at like right about 6:00. Um, the steering committee met for the first time today and um the consultant has started their discovery phase which will be an inventory of all the city assets as far as arts and culture go. Um, in the next couple of days, you should see a public survey and an online idea board that the public can post their ideas. Think like Pinterest, if you know what Pinterest is, you can post, anyone in the community can post ideas for public art. Um, so it should be coming out in a city newsletter in the next few days and we will meet again in May. Keep this ball rolling. >> To put you on the spot, can you tell us uh who was on our steering committee? Do you have their names in front of you? And more specifically, maybe just the organizations that you tried to represent on that committee. I do not have the list of names in front of me. Um, we have a couple community members. We have a couple of local artists. We have um Think Iowa City was in the room. Not Think Iowa City. >> Yes. >> Yes. Think Iowa City was in the room. Um, the North Liberty Community Pantry. Uh, Green State Credit Union. City staff. Who am I missing? >> Paul. >> Councelor Park. That was what I was looking for. You did a great job. >> Greater Iowa City >> and Greater Iowa City. That's what I was looking for just to kind of get some uh scope of who's on this uh committee for us. >> And right now we're just identifying we have a lot of really positive assets and they're just gathering all of that data on that. >> Cool. >> That's all I have. Mayor, >> thank you. Any questions for Ryan or Tracy? Okay. I will move on then to item eight, uh, which is the mayor's report. Just a couple of uh quick housekeeping things and then I'll get on to the proclamations. Um first of all, I wanted to thank um Councelor Wson for being a part of the pinning ceremony at the fire department last Sunday. It was the first uh second day of actually for for spring break. So I I wasn't able to make it uh as always you were a hit and welcome. I think they probably prefer you there instead of me uh providing those comments, but correct me if I'm wrong. We welcomed um eight >> uh new firefighters. >> Actually 10 in total. >> 10 in total. Okay, two of them just weren't there. I had that I had that math. Uh that was wrong. So, um in our packets, uh for the community, our council has seen this, but there's a terrific report in there from our uh police department on all of the uh the training, the activities, the the statistics, um and how they're adapting and using technology uh here in our community to um for for law enforcement and peacekeeping uh purposes uh as well. And there's also a report in there from the entrepreneurial development center uh out of Cedar Rapids that we've been a founding organization for for gosh 20 plus 20 years I'm going to guess or 15 plus years. So two excellent reports in there if you want to go look at our packet. Um and then lastly I just wanted to thank our uh streets and parks department for uh um reattaching the snow plows and uh the brooms last Sunday and Monday for a blizzard. Um, luckily I wasn't here for it, but uh, they were and it kept this kept the city um, city safe. I'm going to move on to two proclamations and and as I've mentioned already, I'm going to read them. Um, you have an opportunity uh, provide comments and then at the end if there's anyone that wants to take a photo with them, we'll do just that as well. I'm going to start with the uh, sexual assault awareness month. Uh whereas sexual abuse, sexual violence, and stalking affect anyone, including children, causing long-term physical, psychological, and emotional harm. And whereas every 68 seconds an American is sexually assaulted. And every 9 minutes that victim is a child. And whereas approximately 70% of people affected by rape or sexual assault experience moderate to severe distress, a larger percentage than for any other violent crime. And whereas sexual violence in rural communities exists as a hidden, silent, and often unrecognized crime that is often under reportported, it's widespread and affects every community member. And whereas through the inspiration, courage, and resilience of people affected by sexual violence, our communities are learning to better respond to the life-changing impact of sexual violence on individuals through systems and in the community. And whereas DVIP and RVAP have worked to end violence and abuse for more than 45 years through collaborative partnerships of staff, volunteers, local municipalities, criminal justice, health and human services, faith communities, business leaders, and private citizens. And whereas our community's achievements should be commended, and we must continue our commitment to respect and support those affected by sexual violence and to prevent future violence in our community. Now therefore, I, Chris Hoffman, mayor of North Liberty, do hereby proclaim April 2026 as sexual assault awareness month and urge all people to work together to eliminate sexual violence, sexual abuse, and stalking from our community. D, I'll welcome you up for your thoughts. >> Sorry, I'm on call. >> Hello, I am Delaney Dixon. I am the co-executive director of DVIP and RVAP. This is Emmy. She is one of our sexual assault advocates. And I want to thank you for allowing us to be here tonight and to tell you of just a few things about sexual assault that maybe you don't know in this community. North Liberty houses um the UI Healthc Care Center um which is fairly new. It has a saying uh center within it that is one of three in our area, but it's also one of three in the eight counties that we serve. Let that sink in. So, in the eight counties that DVIP RVAP serves, when people um are assaulted and they are looking for a forensic medical exam, they have to travel here. Many of our advocates are on the road. It it can take up to two to four hours to do that travel in addition to the time it takes for a forensic medical exam. With North Liberty allowing sane exams and encouraging the hospital and supporting it in being here, you have created another resource for sexual assault victims, a much needed resource. DVIP and RVAP. Uh we respond to uh calls 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. I spend most of my Christmases in our emergency shelter facility. I would love to say that phone doesn't ring, but it rings often. We have responded to 178 sains since we uh took over the VIP and RVIP transition together. Um with 74 of those being assisted, but 104 being completed. This is important work, but it's hard work to think about. We appreciate that this community takes the time to think about those who don't have a voice and who may still be in shame. The more work that we do together, the more that we show support for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, the more they can operate and seek help and not be shamed. And we can hold offenders accountable because offenders depend on our silence. They depend on us to be uncomfortable and not talk about it. So once again, thank you for your time and your energies. We appreciate you. >> Appreciate you. Thank you. Next, I have a proclamation for transgender day of visibility. Whereas International Transgender Day of Visibility is observed annually on March 31st to celebrate the courage, contributions, and resilience of transgender, non-binary, and gender non-conforming individuals. And whereas the city of North Liberty is committed to fostering a community defined by fairness, equal opportunity, and a profound sense of belonging for every resident regardless of their gender identity or expression. And whereas our community is strengthened by its diversity and our transgender neighbors, colleagues, friends, and family members contribute significantly to the culture, economic, and social fabric of North Liberty. And whereas despite progress, transgender individuals continue to face disproportionate rates of discrimination, violence, and barriers to essential services, making public support and visibility vital to the pursuit of true equity. And whereas visibility is a powerful tool for education and empathy, allowing us to recognize the shared humanity that connects us all and to dismantle the prejudices that hinder our collective growth. And whereas we honor the advocates and trailblazers who have fought for the right of all people to live authentically and safely as their true selves. Now therefore, I, Chris Hoffman, mayor of North Liberty, do hereby proclaim March 31st, 2026 as Transgender Day of Visibility in North Liberty. And I encourage all residents to join in celebrating our transgender community, learning about their experiences, and reaffirming our dedication to creating a city where everyone can live with dignity, respect, and pride. any comments? Okay, thank you guys for being here. >> Um Megan Franks, um I live at 25 North Juniper. I just wanted to say thank you to um um signing these proclamations and at a time when you know so many um so many people don't feel valued and and there are many legislative um bills going on. Um a lot of them were cancelled. That's which is good. Uh, I just feel like this is really important to um recognize uh the transgender community and also I um uh sexual assault awareness month too. So, thank you. >> Thanks, Megan. >> Opportunity for handing these over to you and a photo if you'd like. D Anyone just join? >> You got it. >> Yeah. >> I don't want to take the I just want it. Yeah, I think I >> appreciate your confidence. >> Okay, squeeze in though. >> We're good. He's here to be the photographer, I think. Hey, he's rattled you there. >> Yeah, >> that's two strikes, Ryan. >> Yeah, I lost. >> I see. No one stop. >> I thought I figured you knew what you were doing. I'll move on to item nine, which is uh time for council reports. And I I I created this uh as as mayor as an opportunity to let the community know what our council members do when they're not sitting here in front of you. And they're oftentimes at events uh in our community on our behalf. So, uh besides being on spring break, what have you guys been up to the last couple of weeks? Saving lives in Arizona. >> Ryan working. >> You were working. >> Yep. So, a couple things. Uh, we did get the bids for the emergency management uh building that was going to be built in Tiffen. Actually got nine bids uh with the alternates and they're going over the bids uh now with the county project folks to make sure it all meets uh the criteria and stuff. Uh it's severe weather awareness week and Johnson County actually has an app for your phone. It's called J O Ready. So Joe call ready and it has a lot of information on that about uh severe weather things to do and actually you can sign up for alerts and you can also go to weather.gov safety which is uh the National Weather Service. And then I did uh get to go to the fire department for their pinning of their new members. Uh some of them are firefighters and some of them are uh EMS only. Although several of the EMS only people seem to really enjoy some of the stuff that they got to do with the firefighters and several of them are already going to be in the next firefighter class. So, I just uh let the fire department know that, you know, they had the support of the staff and the rest of the city departments and also that the citizens really stepped up because helping pay for the uh fire station with the loss, supporting that uh was um very important. And then I just let them know that their family members, you were very appreciated because, you know, they we take a lot of the the times of the firefighters and and stuff. So, so, uh, thank you to, uh, Caleb, Joey, Aviva, Austin, uh, Amelia, Emily, Kenna, Sarah, Jeff, and Mike, Micah. Thank you for all stepping up into the service of your community. And a special uh, shout out to Joey who was the rookie of the year, and then Amelia who was the firefighter of the year. >> That's a big deal. you've been working. >> Thanks, Brian. >> Anyone else? >> Everybody wants to be a firefighter, Brian. Even the even the EMS folks. Uh, mayor, I was uh uh attended a mental health workshop uh at Liberty High School uh put on by the Big O Foundation. Um that was a a great event. Um it started with programming uh with the students and then was opened up to members of the community uh to see what the students uh had participated in. Um, so appreciate that. Uh, go to bigo foundation.org or their guest speaker was from the JCK Foundation. So jkfoundation.org for more information on mental health. Thank you. >> Thanks for going, Brian. >> Uh, I also got to was happy to be invited to attend the pinninging ceremony uh for the firefighters. So, um, Brian already mentioned some of the awards that went out, but there was also one, the chief's award went to Nick Slab for being an outstanding firefighter. Um, and then, uh, I look forward to one day being invited to the uh, police department to participate in their ceremonies also. Um and then like uh Tracy mentioned the public art steering committee and I would just encourage anyone watching anyone you know in the audience these you know the community feedback piece of all this you know is is fun uh some of the the uh consultants the ideas that they've shown and uh some of the fun things you know the possibilities are are really encouraging and fun but also we really do want the community to be involved and to weigh in on that. And so I would encourage everyone, you know, once that survey comes out and any of the, you know, feedback uh process to to be engaged, you know, and and we can come up with some really cool u engaging, you know, art projects for North Liberty. So really excited about that and excited to be part of that steering committee. >> Thank you, Paul. >> Uh thank you, mayor. I'll jump in next here and unfortunately Josh has already left but I will take this this opportunity as a as a proud UI alumni and with the Iowa City area sports commission just to freshen our mind um and with our relationship and support of the University of Iowa to say congratulations to Jan Jensen and the women's basketball team on all they've accomplished this year and then um a special congratulations to coach McCullum and the men's basketball team uh who for the first time since I was in college at the university have advanced. It's not that long a culprit, but um have advanced to the sweet 16 and I will take this uh opportunity to be maybe the first uh to invite them to help celebrate their run whether it's a a visit of our lovely city hall. it's not quite the White House or maybe the Centennial Center uh to celebrate those accomplishments because uh this is a community that is not only uh representative of uh North Liberty, but all of Johnson County and the University of Iowa is a big part of that. So, we appreciate uh their success, happy to help celebrate them and as an alumni not that long ago, Brent um and happy to recognize their uh their success. >> Thanks, Brian. Mhm. >> I'd just like to um say I was unable to attend the the badge ceremony uh for the fire department, but I wanted to do a shout out and congratulations to all those members. Um it's really exciting to see the um people coming. The young people are to participate and become a a part of our um emergency um service area. Um, also wanted to encourage um, residents to participate in the art planning um, project. I'm really excited to see what comes of it and um, yeah, just want to see how that works. So, thank you. >> Awesome. Thanks, D. >> I forgot one thing. The Optimus Club breakfast happened also. Great turnout. >> Are they doing that again next month or should we stop announcing that? Yeah, that was a good turnout. I heard it was good turnout. >> It was awesome and they do great work. It was an inside joke maybe nobody else got. >> I don't >> sadly. We'll move on to item 10 which is our urban central district tiff and item A is public hearing regarding proposed addition to the North Liberty urban renewal area. Uh I'll open this up now as an opportunity for anyone on uh anyone in the audience wishing to provide comment um for this tiff district. Seeing none, I'll close the public hearing and move to item B, which is our first consideration of ordinance number 2026-05. This is an ordinance providing for the division of taxes levied on taxable property in the April 2025 addition to the North Liberty urban renewal area pursuant to section 403.19 of the code of Iowa. Could I first get a motion for consideration and then I'll ask Ryan just to give us a quick update on this? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Move by for seconded by Way. Ryan, I'll turn over to you for a moment. >> Sure. Thank you. This is uh really the last step in the process with UCD in terms of uh formulating the the uh TIFF district and ultimately the the uh forgivable loan. Uh and often times when you're working on these projects, creating the TIF ordinance is one of the last things that happens simply because you're waiting for the uh legal descriptions to be accurate and acceptable to the county. So, we uh we got word from the county two weeks ago that the legalist descriptions looked right. Worked with our bond council to put this ordinance together and are asking uh this group for your consideration and approval of the first reading to name. >> Thank you. Are there any questions? >> Uh with that, Tracy, we'll take roll call. >> That's great. This is not cooperating. Apologies. There we go. Way >> I >> For >> I >> Smith >> I >> Park >> I >> Lyold >> I. >> Motion carries 5. Thank you. Item 11 is our splash pad project and this is resolution number 2026-28. a resolution accepting the bid and authorizing ex execution of the contract for the Centennial Park Event Complex Phase 2 Improvements Project, North Liberty, Iowa. Once again, could I have a a motion for consideration? Then uh we'll do a quick highlight of this. >> So moved. >> Thank you, Tanya. >> Second. >> Thank you, Brian. Josiah or Ryan, do you guys want to give a quick um overview of bids received, what's going to happen, and how much it's going to cost us? >> Uh we had really good interest. We had seven bids on this project and um our lowest bid was submitted by Conland Construction. Um there was a base bid plus two alternates because we weren't sure how the bids would come in in the budget. Um Conland's uh bid for the base bid plus alternate one and alternate two were 2,610,800 2.61. Our estimate um engineers estimate was 3.1. Um so very good bid. The five of the bids were under or just right at the estimate. So uh it was a great bidding environment. Uh we talked to a number of people in our organization. uh who worked with Conland. We have experience them on projects. Um did some background search. They got a number of projects that involve either splash pad or aquatic centers or work in the Corville Iowa City area. So um they were responsive. They met all the bid requirements and um are capable of doing the job. Um, so our recommendation is that we award the project to Conlin for both the base bid and the alternate bid one and alternate bid two. >> Thank you. Are there any questions? >> Tracy one. >> Sorry, mayor. So I um while it wasn't my question, I was uh appreciative of the question uh asked uh and the response from uh from Ryan in the in the memo. Um, I guess I I'm a This complex was built from with and from everything from corporate donations to private donations, some of which the majority of folks up here took money out of their own pockets uh and contributed to this uh project um in in the amphitheater Centennial Park. the I'm going to have Grant explain the the power or lack of power we have to award a bid to a local contractor and how the state rules are going to limit us from awarding the bid to a local contractor that is not far off from the low bid. uh cuz it it just doesn't seem to hit the uh doesn't hit the mark for me, may there um in the way that this park and the amphitheater uh has has been built to this point. Really would much rather see this money stay local. Um so with that, Grant Grant, I will >> sure >> turn it over to you on what the restrictions are for us from a state level of what we have to or what we can't do. Of course, if you if you liked uh Ryan's summary, it's because I wrote it. Uh >> figured >> and uh there are um the uh the language that I would highlight, I think that made it into the packet, is that there chapter 26 governs uh public improvement projects and so and and public bidding. Uh it it has in it a definition of what a public improvement project is. Suffice to say, this is in it. If there is if if there is something that's going to be used for the public, for the benefit of the public, and the city or the government entity, whichever it is, has control over what it looks like, what how it's how the work's going to be done, where it is, and so on, and has a single dollar in it, uh, which we do of taxpayer money. If there's any taxpayer money at all, then this the purpose of this state law is to make sure that we honor the the taxpayers's money by paying the bottom dollar we can for every project. And so uh and so we are compelled as Josiah mentioned the lowest responsive responsible bidder and responsive just means we we asked for bids on A B and C. Did you provide answers to those questions and and you know I believe all seven of the all all seven of our folks were were were responsive uh and then the other criteria is responsible. Um, and that just means are they qualified to do the work to go away from the lowest dollar amount. You're going to need to find someone that one of those an one of those bids, the lowest bid was either not responsive or that they're not qualified. And we would have to have some reason to to state that. Now, we've done that in the past. We've had we've had bids for for projects where we had specific knowledge of of problems that we'd had with that particular contractor and we said, "Not you. We don't have that here and we and and we don't have any concerns. So, uh it's it's our obligation to to go ahead and follow the state law and and and and to honor um the uh all of our contributions towards that by making sure that all of our our money goes as far as it can, right? And that that means paying the least amount of money we can. >> Agreed. And I, you know, pe people that have uh seen my years up here uh being very uh conscious uh of the spending of taxpayer dollars um know that that's that's been my position uh since I've been up here. Um have there been and and this is just uh me trying to remember and and probably misremembering. Have there not been ordinances by other cities in the state that have stated that you the city can spend up to a percentage 2% 3% 5% more uh than the bottom bid to award a contract to a local contractor or local bidder and would we have that ability to do that in the future? >> I'm going to decline to offer that on the you know off the hip right now. I'll I'll look into you give give you a better answer. >> This is the best advice I can give the body for for this project under these facts tonight. This is this is what we got to do for sure. >> Understood. And I >> there are uh there there have been and courts are reluctant to to disturb what uh some some additional findings but you got to be real careful about how that how that's done. And that that has happened in bigger cities. I know I think Cedar Rapids has done it for example. Um, but there are a lot of strings attached to that that that don't attain here to the best of my knowledge. But I'll I'll find out. I'll dig in and get you a better answer than >> I'm going to go ahead and shoot from the hip just real quick because I think what you're probably referring to is a local preference resolution or a policy. And we've seen a lot of those. And in fact, we have that same language in our purchasing policy which guides purchases that are outside of the bidding requirements. Okay? And so, uh, if we often times when we're shopping local or when we're looking for a product, if it's, you know, within a couple bucks or depending on the size of the project, a couple hundred bucks, whatever it might, >> variability. Yeah. We're going to we're going to go with the North Liberty Company. >> Yeah. >> But I am confident in saying and Grant can >> do his research on his West Law, but I'm confident in saying that once it hits the bid threshold there, we're we're tied to that. Now, and I don't want to get too deep into this, but we've talked about the construction manager at risk method of constructing, and that's actually the process we're going to be using for the fire station. Uh Coralville is now using it for the rec center. or so is Tiffen. In that in that case, you get to you you go out for an RFP and you bring your general contractor on much earlier in the process, well before the designs even completed. Uh and they will help you through that design process and hopefully find areas where you know there's some savings before we even get to the final design piece of it. But then they are the general. So that's the approach we're taking with the fire station project. We're going to be learning on this one and hopefully uh relying on our neighbors to to help to learn how they went through the process and and uh not make some of the potential maybe mistakes they've made. So, >> excellent. Mayor, I just want to be clear. I I have no issue with the low bid. uh the the low bits fine and I I certainly trust staff just you know when it was that close to a local u it sure just would just feels better uh as a as a uh citizen and as someone sitting up here that the money would stay here but certainly understand the regulations that we are under. So thanks for the time and the explanation >> and the process like for the fire station we can't do that on this because of how far along we are. Yeah, that's a that's a relatively new law and um so all the projects before this we we really weren't able to do it with. So and this I don't I shouldn't say that for this particular project. It's just that this one was a much smaller >> project compared to a you know $18 million >> facility. >> Thank you. I and I want to thank uh both of you uh specifically for bringing this question up or or one of you for bringing it up and the other one for for for riding along with it because this is always informative um to the rest of us. It it's a it's a uh it's a um as as Paul can attest when he asked me about this a couple of days ago, I said, "Well, I'm pretty sure it's written someplace." And it's nice to get that um that affirmation uh that it is there. And for the public also, you're not paying attention to these things uh very often. So, we we do have some requirements on how we spend the the city's dollars uh out there. Um Tracy, we need to take roll call on this, I think. Right. >> We do. >> Okay. >> Smith >> I. >> Li >> I. >> For >> I. >> Leon. >> I. >> Park. >> I. >> Motion carries. Thank you again. Item 12 is the FY202627 budget. And this is resolution number 2026-29. A resolution setting time and place for a public hearing for the purpose of considering the fiscal year 2026 2027 budget. Could I have a motion for this consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Tanya, you got it. Move by. Yeah, thank you. By way, seconded by Forney. And to be clear, this is setting the second required budget hearing that the state requires of us. And this will be on April 14th at our first meeting in April. Are there any other questions? Tracy, could I have roll call, please? >> Won, >> I. >> Park. >> I. >> Smith. >> Hi. >> Courtney. >> I. Liealt. >> I. >> Motion carries. Item 13 is Sunset Prairie Part One and Part Two. Item A is resolution number 2026-30, a resolution approving the developers agreement for Sunset Prairie Part One subdivision, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second move by Park, seconded by Libold. >> This is one in of four in a row, but you guys have any questions on a developer agreement? >> Tracy, could we have roll call, please? >> Smith, >> I. >> Lold, >> I. >> W. I >> Fortney I Park >> I. >> Motion carries 5-0. Item 13B is resolution number 2026-31. This is a resolution approving the developers agreement for Sunset Prairie Part 2 subdivision North Liberty Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second by for seconded by Liebold. Any questions? Tracy >> Smith >> I. Park >> I >> Forourtney >> I >> Wesson >> I >> libold >> I >> motion carries 5-0 item 14 is green belt trail part 7 and part 8 these are also developers agreement resolution number 2026-32 is a resolution approving the developers agreement and storm water manage storm water maintenance facilities agreement for green belt trail part 7 North Liberty Iowa could I have a motion for consideration please moved Second move >> by Smith, seconded by Forney. Are there any questions? >> Tracy, could we have a roll call, please? >> For I, >> Wayen, >> I. >> Park, >> I. >> Libold, >> I. >> Smith, >> I. >> Motion carries 5-0. And item 14B is resolution number 2026-33, a resolution approving the developers agreement and storm water maintenance facilities agreement for Green Belt Trail, Part 8, North Liberty, Iowa. Could I have a motion for consideration, please? >> So moved. >> Second. >> Moved by Fortney, seconded by Way. >> Are there any questions? Tracy, roll call one more time, please. >> Park, >> I. >> Lold. >> I. >> Won. >> I. >> Smith. >> I. >> Forney. >> I. >> Motion carries. 5-0. Item 15, ill business. Anything out there to re >> Oh, just one quick question. I forgot to ask. splash pad completion date. >> Uh let's see. The uh date of substantial completion is April of next year. >> Just in time. >> Yep. >> Just in time for next season. Yep. >> Anything else? Item 16 is new business. You have something on your mind, don't you? >> It's not worthy. Okay, I'm going to move on to motion to adjurnn then before it comes back. >> So moved, Brian. Thank you, Brian. Second. >> Appreciate you, Bryant. >> Any questions? All in favor say I. I. I. Opposed.