Title: North Liberty Library Board Meeting on March 16, 2026
Published: 2026-03-17 12:10:41
Video ID: gU3oCeqHHoU

call this u meeting of the library board to order. Uh March 16th, 20126 at 7:30. Um I see we don't have anybody the public there, but correct me if I'm wrong. >> Okay. So, >> oh, go ahead. >> I have to start the meeting live here. Set to live. Ah, >> okay. set to live. Now I have to go to >> All right. So now, yes, there's no public. You are right. >> Okay. And I don't It doesn't appear we'll have quorum to pass the minutes. So we'll probably need to move those on to the next timer together. Correct. >> Mhm. >> Or circle back to it. Um and the staff introduction, he will not be here. So, we'll go now to the library director's report. >> Okay, I'm figuring out why this isn't letting me go to where I need to go. Just a second. It's I need to figure out why I can't do the what I need to do in here. Aha, I got it. Okay. So, I just need to note that we can't do the motion. You might have to bear with me as I learn this system a little bit. Oh, I'd hope a library would be a place of grace when it comes to learning. Do I put um deferred? How do I do that? Or Okay. Move to April. Okay. So, that is done. And now I have to move back to my Oh my gosh, I need to learn to navigate this thing. Okay. So, director's report. I will start with the budget. And I needed to open all these and I did not. So, it's going to be just reef net. How do I open it? Okay, so budget report is first and as you can all see we are sitting really well with the budget um with the total being right now this time of year is 66% if if I'm remember correctly from uh normal and we are sitting in the total uh library budget line at under that just under that Um and as usual as I say every month we have a few lines where we uh frontload like their databases and other things. Um and we are really good in our like constru contractual service areas and our uh just our general spending in in our uh commodities lines. So all of our supplies and books all those lines are good in good shape. And in fact under we can probably uh Andrew is balancing learning to use the Amazon to spend and it's a little bit different from Baker and Taylor where he used to uh buy these bulk books now he's gets to buy on the fly which is definitely interesting. Um and he's doing really well with that. So all overall we're sitting really well and again um does anyone have any questions? I do for me. So, if no questions, I'll move on to my director's report and get it to move. Okay. Um so our state accreditation it was sub application was submitted in February and uh that application is done every three years as part of uh our funding from the state we have to submit accreditation paperwork fill out some forms and do some fun activities like um making sure we're complying with ADA compliance and other different um areas in the library. The strategic plan was one thing. the strategic plan lapsed as of uh FY25 and I had hoped that that would be something we would start tackling in the fall and between um just lots of things happening it just didn't happen. Um and so when we went to do the report, that's one area that I did could not submit. And in order to do that and talking to the person who um oversees the accreditation processes, he agreed to uh which a lot of people do this. In fact, Iowa City was in the same boat with us. Um he agreed to give us an extension to the end of March to have the plan submitted. And in talking with our consultant, Becky, we decided to do just a one-year plan with the focus being on doing an assessment this year, uh, a a more broad community assessment. Um, and what I did then was also take within the plan, which you'll see later in the report. Um, I took a lot of the staff goals and I kind of meshed them into like like areas and with our values and then I created a new plan based on five very broad goals with some strategies on how we would achieve those in the over the next course of the next year. um with the thought being that in FY26, the end of FY26, we would begin the work on a plan um that will be take us through the next three to five years. Um so that plan is with us tonight and hopefully perhaps we will have a chance to vote on that plan and I will be able to submit it to the state here shortly. Um, I we did just complete a renovation of the programming office and I just wanted to give kudos to our staff. Mostly Kayla and Corey did a lot of the work on measuring and figuring out what they needed. Um, and then we had customuilt cabinets. um they did a lot of work to find the the p the group that we used to get those cabinets from in order to get the depth we needed um and not cost an arm and a leg through like some of the local uh like Lowe's or things they just didn't have the what they needed um to make it work for storage. So they have this great new program preparation area. Our printer 3D printers in there. They've got the costumes all stored in there. So, it really um set them up for more success and being able to have a space where they can meet and collaborate and work. Um so, we're excited about that. The contribution drive has been going well. Um the friends donations today, as of last week, were uh just over $1,000. That's actually up a few hundred since then because I I've received a couple more donations. The endowment is um typically gets less and it has not been I haven't seen a lot coming in. I've we do have $200 now. As of the writing of this, it was 100, but we did get another endowment donation this week. Um, and then with personnel, I was just going to talk a little bit about um I just recently uh did a presentation for uh Bondorf Public Library, and while I was there, they were talking about um some skilluing training that they do at their library on a really regular basis. They they do have a bit bit of a larger staff than us. Um, but we thought it would be fun to do a little what they do is actually have people come in and do training a couple times a month with with their team. Um, while I don't think we have capacity or time to do that, we decided to start doing monthly tips for improved services um around particularly around our um electronic resources. So, um, Kelly will be sending out different tips every month from about our resources and what's available in them just to keep people familiar with what we have to offer. And then hopefully that will encourage them to promote those more with our patrons um, so that they are well used and and you know, we we spend a lot of money on them, so we want to make sure they're being used um, and that people know they're there. They are also wonderful. Some of them are really wonderful for staff um, for training in in house, too. So hopefully she'll be able to we'll see some more use of those. Um and then as I was talking about that, Andrew was talking about perhaps that that would be something that he might also do with how you how searches can work in the collection to find things better for st for patrons um and other collection updates that he has going on. So the programming is pretty visible, right? That's something that people see. It's happening out in the community where where the some of these back um back of the room things that are happening aren't as visible. So, it'll be kind of cool to have those um more out there for all the staff from full-time and part-time. Um and then just reporting that the full-time staff is participating in an optional training program called being with it. Um that is a followup from some training we did last year with Sher, Dr. Sher Watt from the University of Iowa and her team. So, we'll be meeting for four sessions in March through May. uh the first one was online and the rest of them I believe will be in person. The training series is around um building on like I said on that previous training that we had which was just about the theory of being and being grounded in talking when we're talking with people um self-awareness humility and all those um different wonderful complexities about our life um our lives and then um focusing on navigating difficult conversations which is really very timely for all of us um in the world we live in today and with the work we're doing with the public as well. So, we're excited to be part of their study and their work that they're doing. And then just a legislative update, five of the bills did not make it through the first funnel. So, all the bills I kind of talked about uh last month are all kind of or in January kind of met their end for this year. Uh we did have two. One they're calling an omnibus bill which is 2622 in the house uh that passed out of committee. um it moves control of libraries from boards uh advisory board or to advisory boards which we already are um so it doesn't really impact us but it will impact other libraries and particularly I I would have a lot of concerns about some of our smaller libraries um and what that could mean for them if they if that those boards aren't there to kind of act um as representatives of their communities and and help people understand and advocate for them and also they are a layer of protection for us um as far as like you know damages for censorship and and those types of things. They they help protect us from that and with our with our policies. So in our case we have a wonderful setup and we have this great board and then we also have a wonderful city that supports us. So we're in good shape. Um the other things it does is limit miners access to certain materials. In fact we had talked about this last year. I think I remember telling you guys at one point that we had discussed that what that could mean and what that could mean is that we close our doors to kids unless they're with an adult to come into the building. That is a um not a threat. It's a very serious possibility particularly in our smaller libraries where they just don't have the space to separate out, you know, into different areas of the library. You know, kids have to pass by our adult collection to get to our juvenile collection. So then what do we do? They're they're they're automatically exposed. Um, Britney uh, oh my gosh, I brought blanked on her last name, but the the director of the Burlington Public Library uh, has said that the same thing and she told her legislator the same thing. If this were to pass, that would be something we would have to consider would be that minors would not have access to the library um, without an adult present, which would mean a lot of kids just wouldn't be able to come in, right? because we have kids who don't have an adult that's able to bring them because they work or for other reasons um out out of their control. Uh and then it also hinges library funding around compliance to these things. So I believe and others believe that it does expose us to criminal charges or civil liabilities um around harmful to minors that that definition. They would argue that that's not the case. Um but but we believe that it could be that it could open us to some pol some liabilities. Um the other bill that is out there is the House File 2324. It discontinues public school partnerships, public library and school part partnerships which means that the kids that we have the 14,000 library cards in our in our uh district would all go away. The kids would not have those library cards available to them to use the program. So many kids wouldn't have a library card at all. At our library, a kiddo can get a library card when they come in um you know without a parents permission after their you know once they can give the give us their information. But for other libraries that might be 16 or 18 before the that parent parental permission is not a thing. So it could affect um libraries in that way. It also prohibits bookmobiles which would include our bike um any kind of mobile unit from going on school property. Um, so those services would be null and void. This particularly would impact Pulk County and Johnson County because we are the ones who have those. Although there are multiple bookmobiles throughout the state now. Waverly has a brand new bookmobile. Marian has a brand new bookmobile. I believe that Bondorf is just getting theirs up and running. So it would impact several uh cities with as far as being able to serve their their schools. So it's really unfortunate. Um, I did provide a link about some coverage on these bills that just came out with some interviews from both sides, which I thought was really interesting. Um, and then on the federal level, what I will say about those two bills is that the end of the funnel is this week. Um, right now those bills are not on any schedule. And from what we understand, there isn't a lot of interest in passing them from most people in the legislation. Um there are a few who would push it really hard. Right now we're not seeing it and unless they just surprise us with it in the next couple of days, it's hopefully not going to be a thing and it'll we'll pass through another year without it. On the federal level, there is a pretty harmful bill out there called 7661 which is called Stop the Sexualization of Children Act. Um, it amends these really old great uh education acts from the 1960s to prohibit federal funds from being used to develop, implement, facilitate, host, or promote programs or materials for minors that would include what the bill defi what the bill defines as sexually oriented. Um, so it's it's their definition of that. Um, it's really interesting that that popped up. Again, I don't think it will get legs, but we are surprised every day, so who knows what will happen with it. Does anyone have any questions about those different things? Yeah. Um, I'm not hearing from Cara, so I'm going to keep plowing along and hopefully we'll see her or we won't. Um, on the profession, you know what? She might have told me she wasn't going to be here tonight, you guys, come to think of it. So, we might be I think she said she was out of the state. So, we might be um just sending that along to the state and then having you guys approve it post sent post. Um moving forward, uh I did attend the night library leaders and media forum conference last month in February in Miami. I will tell you that is one of my very favorite conferences. It's a small very intimate conference with about 60 um library leaders um library directors and foundation directors in libraries across the country. Most of them a majority of them are urban libraries. So I get to represent the the small libraries and the rural libraries. This year I was we were able to invite or ask for a colleague to be invited. So I did put in for my colleague Kathleen Sepatalo from Ohio to be invited and she was invited which was lovely. Um, so we had two small libraries there. Um, and I think it's really just a wonderful opportunity for us to share experiences with them with our larger counterparts and for them to share with us and to see that there are a lot of likenesses and also areas where we differ. What we find um Kathy said too, a lot of the things we were saying during the meeting that we had a smaller small group meetings, they were listening and they were writing a lot of notes and asking a lot of questions about the things we do. Part of that is because in small libraries we're able to be really nimble. Um where in big libraries there's a lot of red tape sometimes with some of the work they do. Um so it was kind of cool to see that. The fun part this year was that we were invited to uh participate in the media conference as well which was about 12 well I know last year at least there were,200 journalists there. I don't know for sure how many this year it was a lot. They have huge huge um group of people there. So they over overlapped them and in the mornings we spent time with journalists. In the afternoon we were in the library meetings. Um so we got to see some really interesting and fascinating journalists talking about their work. And what I heard over and over a couple things. One thing was urgency. That was a term that was used again and again in both rooms. Um urgency is in our work. Um the other thing that I found really fascinating was just the amount of overlap there is with the challenges. And something I said during the library part during our takeaways at the end was that over and over again I felt with the talks they were having and the challenges they're facing that libraries are the answer in a lot of cases we can support their work and help them um if we find ways to work together and forge that. Um so I think that that could be a really interesting thing going forward. I will say that my friend John Bracken who is one of the people who leads the night library leaders conference um he's from the digital public library of America and I had he and I did try to put he put forth and asked me to write along with him um a proposal for press forward to to get some grant money to do some work with journalists in North Liberty. Uh we did not get uh pass the letter of inquiry so we didn't get to do it but I think there's there's opportunities there and I think we'll see more of them. coming forward as we lose our smaller papers and journalists are looking for outlets and places to work. So, I think there's going to be some good partnership possibilities in the future. And then, um, the building together conference, I just wanted to update you guys, is May 4th through 7th in Seattle. This was a conference that was initially, uh, Nick Shim and I were both sent an email invitation for one of us to go, and I had, um, deferred to Nick. I thought that it would be great for him to attend. Um and then he is doing the Cortico grant um with the AI and the teens. Uh that meeting that was supposed to happen in January got cancelled and so that grant or that got rescheduled for the same day that we are to present in Seattle. So he can't be in Cambridge and Seattle. So, I will be stepping in to go to Seattle to present with um it's with Shamichel Halman who's with the urban libraries council. Um and if any of you are going to the Coralville uh training in April, he will be the keynote in the morning. He's wonderful. Uh and then Irex, which is the international research exchange, a representative from there and the director of the Walmart Foundation, who is a fascinating person who Nick and I have both met in a couple of meetings. So it should be a really amazing conference. I'm very excited. I it would not be something that we would probably be able to attend. Irex is paying our way to go and they are paying for um me to attend the entire conference which I would not have done had they not been generous enough and able to do that. That's quite expensive. it is a conference of uh foundations and so it's a it's a big group of people in the communities who support this kind of work. Um so it's a good opportunity for us to be in front of them and in the afternoon both days there are 10 workshops happening they're repeated both days and you get to choose one for each day and it was really really hard to pick because they are all phenomenal. I am so excited to sit through sit in those and hear and some of the leaders that are in that room. I know from other um spaces and so I'm super stoked to see how this goes. Um it'll probably be the only time we have the opportunity to be there. So I know Nick is bummed and I feel really bad. We we tried to figure out a way for him to be both places, but we haven't invented that yet. Um and that is all I have for my um presentation or my report. Um, and then just if you guys have any questions about any of the public service or any of the staff reports, I am happy to answer those. I didn't have any questions per se. I just wanted to I just think speak directly to the continual legislation being proposed that would impact libraries across Iowa. um you know they're not minor minor adjustments. They're trying to fundamentally change how libraries operate and how information is accessed and how libraries are governed. Um libraries exist so that everybody in the community has access to knowledge and ideas and information and it's central to you know literacy and education and a democracy. And so anytime we see policies that access restrictions to materials um is just it's concerning to put it mildly. Um but you know it's I think to be honest there's a lot at stake. You know you know this but libraries are not simply buildings. You know you're not simply places that house books. Growing up, libraries were um sincerely my safe place I went to as a child. And they support people's ability to read and learn to think think freely. And I think as trustees, as community members, we have a responsibility to ensure our community understands, our legislature un understands, everybody understands what these proposals means and how they really could impact access to information and education opportunities. So, cuz when we're talking about these impacts, what we're really talking about is who has access to knowledge, who has access to opportunities, because the work you're doing is remarkable. And one of the most powerful things that you already do such a good job of is making that visible. And I love that you're going to bring the, you know, the behindthe-scenes stuff as more visible. That way people know and see the services and the programming and the things that we all rely on. And so I think my only question is um what should I do individually? What should we do collectively um to ensure the community and the legislators really understand the real impact and um the role it plays. you know, how could these um impact our libraries and the role they play in our communities. Um I mean, I talk to legislators. Um I educate briefings, you know. Um but it Yes. I'm just curious what else we can >> I mean I think that's that's the ticket is just being able to contact your legislators using using the different mechanisms whether it's five calls or whether it's um >> you know simply just connecting with each one of them by email or making a phone call and voicing your opinion and going on to the legislative pages and tracking the legislation and then making comments when they have their committee meetings. >> Right. Even though they they the majority of those comments were in favor of libraries and and not favoring these bills and they still pass them out of committee, I think having having the voice there and showing history, the history that people are vocalizing that they are against those bills is really vital. Um, and again, I do think some of these bills, um, at least from the talk that I've heard from colleagues in other parts of the state, even in some of the more rural or more conservative areas, most of their legislators are not interested in passing these bills. Um, so if they pass, it's going to be I don't I don't know what it'll look like unless it's just done kind of at the last minute and as a >> measure. And we've seen it. Um there's some democratic processes that are just not happening even at the state capital. And that's something I feel okay to say because it's being said by other legislators. They're not being invited to the table when these when these bills are going through committee. >> Right. >> It's a it is concerning and and I think the the best thing we can do is to keep vocalizing it and asking our friends to vocalize it and our colleagues and our neighbors to to speak out for it. Well, thank you for what you and the staff do. Yeah. >> All right. >> We should be moved to uh policy review the mission statement. Is that correct? >> Yes. >> So, I'm just going to pull up I'm still navigating this stuff. Um >> so, the mission statement is new. Um, so really it's just a again we'd have to we'll have to bring it back ne in in April. Um, but it is just newly reworked this last year. So and you guys passed it already. So I'm I'm not sure, you know, we'll just bring it back in April, but I don't think there'll be a lot to do with it. Um, so the big one is really the next one, which is um, well, I have the strategic plan just for you guys to review the report from the first one. Um, and that's just for review. I don't think that there's anything that has any action that needs to be take place. That was just more if anyone had questions based on the report. And what I did was have all the staff go through and update and then I went through and updated and um some of them talked about some of the goals that either were you know I always think of a plan as fluid and I told all of them that the plan some things may may not have gotten done. Some things were generated this this plan was written when there were a couple different staff people in place. a new staff came in and they were they didn't have the same interest in um some of the goals or thought that they should be done in a different way. So, we've already seen some changes and you can see some of the notes that say that they adopted something different or chose a different path. um we have a lot of that plan was accomplished and I was really um pleased as I read through their notes and you know we've been keeping tracking it through the last three years but just seeing the final this final kind of report was kind of great to see all the things that did happen and were accomplished from that. So, if anyone has any questions about any of that report, I am happy to address those. And otherwise, >> it's amazing. You'll accomplish. >> Thank you. Yeah, they do. That staff does a lot >> for sure. And so then the next thing would be that other strategic report or the strategic plan that I put forth for you guys here. And again, um, what I think we'll do is I'll submit it to the state. Um, I don't believe there's any requirement by the state that it has to be passed by the board in order to be submitted. Um, but I do I would like to have that go through the board channels. So, we can do that in April. Um, and I'll make note of that um on the agenda that we are Not the right place. Oh my gosh. Sometime it will be this will be really easy for me. Here we go. Okay. So, I will make notes um on both of those things that those will be coming back to us in April for review and approval. Once I figure out where it is, I have to do it. I think I have to backtrack back out of it and go back in in order to figure out where I am. Oh my gosh. Nope. This is where I was worried about bumbling this stuff. >> Six months from now, I'd be like, "Remember that first meeting? >> I just do not sip through everything." >> I was telling Derek beforehand that this is just not intuitive to me at all. >> Um, how you go about doing these things. I just did it with the other one, you guys. No. Oh my goodness. All right. Seriously? Oh, I I know I have to do this again. Okay. No, I don't have to do that. There we go. I think this is going to get me where I need to go where I'm lying. It's just really slow now. There we go. I did it. Yay. Cheers all around. Okay. And I'm going to copy this and paste it in the next one. Thanks for your patience while I'm figing this out. Getting back to where I need to go again. Okay, come on. All right. Okay. So, that piece is done. Great. I think all we have left is if there's new business. >> I don't have any. >> And I'm guessing no new business. And then from there is adjournment which I cannot take a motion because we cannot accept motions. So I guess we're here all night. >> Oh we're adjourned by acclamation at 8 oh I'm sorry on my time 7:04 p.m. >> All right. >> All right >> and live. Thank