Title: North Liberty Planning Commission on May 5, 2026
Published: 2026-05-06 11:40:37
Video ID: SQIGB3u6Fxg

Okay, I'll call the Tuesday May 5th Planning Commission meeting to order. Roll call. Ahearn. Here. Bathke. Here. >> Janiza. >> Here. Nicholson. Here. Schmirack. >> Here. Wheeler. Here. And Yadi. Okay. Can I get a motion to approve the agenda? Bathke, I move to approve the agenda. I'll second that motion. All in favor? I. >> I. Any opposed? Great. Moving on, any public comment on any topic not on the agenda? Now is the time. All right, seeing none, I'm going to move forward to item number four. Preliminary subdivision plat, request of QuickTrip Inc. for approval of a preliminary subdivision [snorts] plat at Penn and North Jones. Staff presentation, please. Okay, thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. This will be familiar to you cuz we considered the rezoning. All right, so you say you considered the rezoning at the last meeting. Um again, we are at the southwest corner of West Penn and North Jones Boulevard. Uh 3.69 acres. Actually, the LL Pelling parcel is a very much large parcel, so they're subdividing this corner piece off for development of a QuickStar. So, this request here is just the subdivision plat, but a lot of the information will be similar cuz you'll consider the site plan next. Uh existing zoning is C2 highway commercial district. I put a little asterisk up there because it hasn't formally been rezoned, but you're considering it as C2. Anticipated that the preliminary plat preliminary site plan and rezoning will will all be on the same agenda at council at the at the final reading in the at the toward the end of May. So, let's consider it as if it's been rezoned to C2. Anticipate it will be, but if it's not, then then council won't be able to move forward with the rezoning. The future land use map designation is urban high intensity UHI, so C2 is consistent with UHI. Uh pretty straightforward preliminary plat that you see here. Legal description on the left and subdivision on the right. Uh interestingly, North Jones Boulevard hasn't been formally dedicated in the form of right-of-way to the city. Uh it's just been an easement. I know it looks like it's mapped like that, so uh during this process, it'll it'll at least this section get formally dedicated. Don't worry, we won't have to shut down the street or anything like that. It's just uh it's held in easement, which is kind of typical like Dubuque Street is like that uh through Sunset Prairie. And so, when Sunset Prairie gets final platted, it'll actually convey in form of right-of-way to the city. It's just an easement, and that's pretty typical with with agricultural um type areas. Uh we had a virtual good neighbor meeting on March 25th. Uh it's to talk about the rezoning and subdivision plat. Uh no one outside city staff and Casey attended, and there's no objections to the request. Uh we do have two findings. Um uh the preliminary plat facilitates development consistent with the future land use map. And the preliminary subdivision plat would achieve consistency with approval standards, so staff recommends the planning accept commission accept those two listed findings and forward the request to city council with the recommendation for approval. Um just like to recognize Casey and and QuickStar organization. They've just been outstanding to work with. Um this is their third store. Um so, um we we try and be reasonable, but anytime we reach out to Casey and ask, it's it's sure, what do you need? They've been a wonderful community partner, so um it's it's always a pleasure to to work with somebody that just realizes they're going to be uh in the community for a long long long time, so um we we appreciate you guys and appreciate you, Casey. She's been and Casey and I actually worked together uh before both of us were in these current roles, so so it was [snorts] kind of interesting when it's like, wait a minute, I think I think I know you. [laughter] And so, it's been kind of fun. Thank you. Thanks, Russ. Applicant presentation. Thank you, Russ, for the nice comments. It's been great working with the city um on this project and previous projects, and appreciate commissioners you reviewing the subdivision plat this evening. Um he really gave the overview on this one. I'll get more into the site plan um on the next item, but I can I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you. Any public comment? Okay, seeing none, we'll move on to questions and comments from the commission. No comment. No question. Straightforward for everybody? Mhm. Mhm. Okay. Then I will entertain a motion for recommendation. I'll move that the planning commission accept the two listed findings and forward the preliminary subdivision plat to the city council with a recommendation for approval. Second. I'll second that motion. Okay, got a motion and a second. Roll call, please. Nicholson. I. Ahearn. I. >> Janiza. [snorts] I. Schmirack. >> I. Bathke. I. Wheeler. I. Okay. Moving on to item five, the site plan. Okay, same site. Thanks, Russ. Unsurprisingly similar location. Um >> [laughter] >> uh just just, you know, same zoning, same uh future land use map designation, so um just get into the site plan. Uh 11 little over 11,000 square foot QuickStar fueling station with attached uh car wash and related infrastructure. Again, on 3.69 acres. Uh we'll have an access off of Jones that that lines up with the uh Liberty Way across to the east. Uh and also in proposing an access off on West Penn. Now, we did talk with them early on that if we did have an access on West Penn due to access restrictions, that they would have to construct a median uh in that location. They said, okay. Um so, uh being proposed with the site plan is is a median. It's similar to what you would see down on uh uh West Evergreen Road close to Kansas. When when that uh subdivision was built, they built a road kind of close to Kansas, and a a median uh was was constructed there. They currently filled it in with uh sod, but it allows us to come back at some point in time and and install landscaping. Um I think we're we're still conceptualizing kind of how we want those two corridors, Evergreen Road and and West Penn, to be. You know, we we envision at one point in time uh to manage access that we will have a series of of medians. You see it as we get close to the interstate I-380, that we'll have more, and and then we'll be able to beautify it just like we've done along Ranch All Way. So, uh that's kind of our one of our thoughts for uh character building in our community, and and it and it looks looks pretty amazing, so um pretty straightforward. I think the next one is uh landscaping plan. There is a detention pond to the west there that will will outfall um but again, pretty straightforward request. Um again, virtual good neighbor meeting was held on that 25th, and and we have no objections to the request. Uh we do have one finding that it achieves consistency with approval standards, and staff recommends you accept that finding and forward the request to city council with the recommendation for approval. Thank you. Thank you, Russ. Presentation. Right. Um just wanted to give a little bit more um overview of the site plan here. So, we are showing um a very similar building to what was built on Evergreen. Um it's the same size of building and then the attached car wash um with 10 dispensers. This one does not have side diesel, the high flow diesel. This location will not have that, whereas Evergreen does, cuz it's more of an interstate location. Um and yes, we have agreed to um construct the median at our cost on Penn Street uh with that adding that access there. Um otherwise, again, I can answer more questions if anybody has any. Sure. Thank you. >> Thank you. All right, any public comment? Okay, seeing none, we'll move on to questions and comments from the commission. Russ, my question was about Liberty Way. Is that actually going to be space for a thoroughfare if something continues to the west of that, or is this just on there like will the road continue, or is it just part of their parking lot? What are we going to do with that? >> be part of their parking lot. Yeah, I think um Let's see here. Running into Pelling. Yeah, it'll it'll just stop. I think the opportunity to extend to to do further connections possibly it's it's off of this Maybe I can get up. No, it's off of this map. I think Cherry Street could possibly continue to the west. And then um there's a driveway entrance at the south end of Ella Pelin. Mhm. I think there's an opportunity to possibly uh we haven't talked to Ella Pelin about this, but So, it's it's a concept. >> generous with their property right [laughter] now. Yeah. Well, that's what that's what I was wondering if there was any concept concept on the Liberty Way one in case that becomes a friendly drive back there. >> don't we don't you know, we we just think um just for it to continue uh west. Country Lane that you see on the west is a private street and it just kind of dead ends. So, we just don't see that connectivity there. Cherry Street I do see a possibility that it could extend and then and then dip down and then ultimately kind of line up with West Lake is kind of what we see as the possibility and then there's several north-south connector roads that would make sense for that. Okay. >> [snorts] >> Ross, I did have a question. Could you explain a little bit more about the need for the median? Sure. Yeah. Um we on what we start to do is is are trying to limit the the location of full accesses off of Penn. Um I think if you go to some older communities that that didn't really have a sense for access management, you see driveway accesses all over the place. And what that has the effect of doing is um slowing down the flow of of traffic on that street. Um just cuz there's so many cars entering and exiting, so it just really slows down. Now, I'm sure my colleagues here will recognize that um being a hardcore biker I really [snorts] don't have a lot of sympathy for for how long it takes people to drive in a car, but I recognize the need for it. And and from time to time I do drive a car. Um you know, on the local streets is where we want people to slow down and drive slower speeds. Obviously, as you get to these arterial roads like Penn, West Evergreen, Randolph, Kansas, Jones, those we want those to be in a little bit more of a free flow um type design. And and you really need to do that through access management. And so, limiting a location of this what we did with the Solomon's entertainment district to the north is we had a traffic study and they they looked at the distance between Jones and said um you can have another full access over to that west. And you see it there along on the west side of the um uh of the athletic complex. So, really just having another full access in between there would have been too close. And so, we really just say, "Okay, you'll be limited to a right in right out." Some communities do it where you kind of do a diamond where they they kind of forces you to go right in right out. But it just doesn't work and people sometimes just are um kind of jerks when they drive and they just say ignore it and they just kind of go around and just end up. And so, we've had our metropolitan planning organization um recommend that if you're going to do a a right in right out, you just need to design it as a full access, but then there needs to be a median constructed that physically stops people from from turning in that direction. So, that's that's why we do it. Okay. So, if I'm just understanding correctly, it's just solely to keep people from only turning to the east out of Quick Star? [snorts] >> Also, yeah. So, also westbound traffic trying to turn in and cross traffic, too. >> Okay. Yeah. And I think you see like where Pacha Way is um a full access made a lot of sense when we weren't that big of a community and now it's Yeah. it's really too close and you you just see that proximity. It it's it's problematic. I think we're going to have to address it at some point in the future. >> need to widen Penn at all or will it be in the existing layout? >> This is when you get to Jones it widens to that full section. So, we have two lanes and a median in there. It's the section east of there that will need to be physically widened. Okay. So, we have the real estate here to do it. It's really just a a long kind of center turning lane. And the median will allow for motorists going westbound to decelerate and turn into the existing Ella Pelin entrance. Great question. I had a question about the trees on the perimeter. And I was just wondering if they're going to be more like ornamental trees or if they're going to be something more natural like bur oaks or you know, something bigger that will contribute to a tree canopy in the future when we are all older gone. Yeah, I'll I I'll defer to you. I I don't know that we know the answer at this point. Yeah. Um to be honest, I'm not that familiar with uh what trees we have on here. Um but that's something that we can look at and I know as we get further in the design and review Oh, there is a bur they can take that into account. We do Josiah's looking at the plan and we do have a We do have bur oak oaks, aren't they? Is it okay? Thank you for looking at that. Cool. And we do have a decent amount of species diversity. I know some I think I looked at Aldi the other day and it's like all the same trees, so it is it is nice to see a little bit of species diversity. Yeah. Thank you. So, the the canopy over the pumps is that is the height of that uh required by the DOT or somebody? Do you know? Is Um I think it's per city code. Is that right? I think so. It's yeah. I don't I don't It's like a yeah. I I don't know if it's DOT or yeah, city requirement, but there is a certain requirement that it has to be. Okay, cuz they always seem so high. It's like, you know, you could drive a Mack truck through it, you know, and I you know, it's probably fire access or something. Yeah, for fire. And then also, I mean we do still have the lower flow of diesel under the gas canopy. So, if there is a truck that needs, you know, a taller truck that needs to get underneath needs to allow for that. Okay. >> too. Thank you. Mhm. Thank you. Yeah. I see. Thank you. I would also imagine their insurance company has something to say about those probably heights as well. Probably that. They're always so high. It's like, you know. Okay. Any other questions or comments from the commission? If not, I would entertain a motion. >> [snorts] >> I'm getting used to the new layout. Uh see if I can find a page number. I move that the planning commission accept Yeah. Sorry about that. There you go. Oh. >> [laughter] >> Oh. I can't read it. I move that the planning commission accept the latest the listed finding and forward the preliminary site plan to the city council with recommendation for approval. Motion. Do I hear a second? I'll second that. Motion and a second. Get a roll call for us. Janice here? Aye. Ahearn? Aye. Bafky? Aye. Mickelson? Aye. Willar? Aye. Schmirbach? Aye. Reese? Curious. Welcome. Thank you. Thanks, Casey. Okay, moving on to item six. Preliminary site plan request of Eastern Iowa Productions LLC for approval. Excuse me. For preliminary site plan on 5.52 acres at Stoner and Herky. Okay. So, uh yeah, again five you can see the location up there in the industrial I-380 Industrial Park. Um as I mentioned kind of uh last month, we don't see a ton of activity out here. So, it's awesome to see uh an existing business out in this area expanding uh and and being successful. So, uh we certainly appreciate and support that and I've met with the ownership and and Dan's been great to work with. Again, just kind of meeting with us preliminarily about kind of, you know, laying some things out and um and and getting with John and then submitting. So, it's um just been a really really good process. Um current zoning is I-1 light industrial. Um it's uh the land use out here is commercial industrial flex, which is so zoning is is consistent with land use. And kind of gives you uh the uh you can see the existing areas kind of in gray, the existing drives um and and buildings. And then the area that's kind of in that uh pink color would be uh those building additions. So, there'd be an addition to the building and then a new building to the south there. So, uh it's 12 little over 12,000 square foot building addition and then the new building would be 25,000 square feet. So, pretty substantial uh expansion out there. Uh there there is a driveway entrance uh that was recently installed to the north. So, it's kind of in that generally lining up in that general location. So, um that works out pretty well. And it's just a nondescript industrial building. So, they will uh have to install masonry uh on on 25% of the facade facing the street. So, they're committing in there to do that. Uh we'll look a little bit more at that uh during uh building permits. Um no objections to the request and uh we do have one finding that achieves consistency uh with approval standards and uh staff recommends you um accept that finding and forward the request to city council with a recommendation for approval. And I do have one request and um John, after your spiel, you you just might kind of giving up and just giving I I people would interested in what you do with your business um a little bit. Might be a little interesting here. Thanks. Thanks Russ. We'll move on to an applicant presentation. Good evening. Uh nothing more to add. I'll let Dan cover more of the business, but again this is a plan expansion, a building addition, and then the second separate building. Uh there's additional parking provided as part of that. I'll also note there's a additional loading dock being provided on the southeast corner of the existing building uh with an expanded drive there to again help with the expanded operations of the business. Um there'll [clears throat] be a upgrade or expansion of the detention basin to make sure we're accommodating the new impervious area. And I think the other thing I would mention is that this is a planned two-phase construction. So the first first phase would be expansion on the existing building and that new loading dock. And that and relocating the driveway uh entrance from the north. And then the second building would be a future expansion. And I'm available for any questions. Otherwise, I'll turn over and let Dan talk a little bit about his business. Thanks, John. >> [clears throat] >> Good good evening. Ryan, thank you for the kind words. So EMS is uh put in simple terms a janitorial uh house, more or less, or what we like to call a maybe a miniature Ecolab. So we actually blend a lot of our own products in North Liberty. So we're also a manufacturer, and uh we have a facility in Des Moines and one up in Waterloo. And um I've owned the business for about 15 years. I think we've been in North Liberty for 17. And um and in December we uh purchased Beecher Brands, which is out of Lisbon, Iowa. It's a sanitizer {slash} hand soap company that the University of Iowa in Iowa City uses their sanitizing prompt. So that's where the second stage will go to. Currently, we don't manufacture that stuff. And so I'm hoping the next couple years that we'll start blending those products here in North Liberty ourselves. So and we make, you know, hand soaps and floor floor floor cleaners and degreasers and stuff like that. So Other than that, I don't know um we have roughly 25 employees. Um I didn't know I was going to have to talk tonight. So >> [laughter] >> Thank you, Ryan. I would have brought my Cliff Notes. And I spent 2 weeks practicing talking. It's not one of my things that I do very well, but uh It's cool. Love love North Liberty. It's been great to deal with. Um we deal with the fire department on on different occasions for products and um lot of things that we do. And it's great access. We pretty much cover three quarters of the state, halfway into Illinois. So Do you anticipate hiring employees with the expansion? So um we had our when I had my first conversation with Ryan, sometimes as we go, we've already hired probably four people as we gear up to running out of room and need to expand. So yes, when we definitely when we take the manufacturing of the hand sanitizer uh hand soap business out of Missouri, that's a FDA type of plant. So we're anticipating five to six more employees on just that. And then EMS is I would say probably well, when we first started, we were at like six employees. And like I said, we're at 25. So we're really looking for even with this expansion, probably adding a couple more individuals. Great. Thank you. Well, thank you. Yeah. The commission has more questions, we'll give you a holler. We appreciate the information. Thank you. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Sorry to put you on the spot there. And You know, when we talk I I know from economic development standpoint, you know, I I think a lot of communities look for that um bright shiny um landing a a new a new business coming to town. And and certainly there's a lot of effort put into that. But you know, when you when you from an economic development standpoint, you know, existing businesses expanding really is is is the bread and butter of of of economic development. So while it's always nice to have it, we we'd love to have those new things. It's really supporting existing businesses and and hoping you create an environment for them to expand is is really what what we see a big impact to our communities on. So And I hear John Warner can sing like an angel. >> [laughter] >> You put that on next month's agenda. >> [laughter] >> Be under other business. Yeah. All right. Well, thank you. Um Public comments? Seeing none, hearing none, I will move on to additional questions or comments from the commission. No questions. Yeah, I'm just happy to see it being successful and growing out there. >> 100%. Yeah, and love an owner business owner especially expanding their footprint as opposed to relocating. I love to see that kind of thing especially here in North Liberty. So um So if we have no other questions or comments, um I will open the floor to a recommendation. I move that the planning commission accept the listed finding and forward the preliminary site plan to the city council with recommendation for approval. Thank you for the motion. Do I hear a second? I'll second that motion. All right. We got a motion and a second. Russ, can we get a roll call vote, please? Schmierbach? Aye. Mickelson? Aye. Jenizer? Aye. Bafky? Aye. Willer? Aye. And Ahearn? Aye. Thank you. Moving on to item seven. 2024 International Fire Code Ordinance. I may defer to uh the city attorney Do you have one on your part your your presentation, though? I don't. You don't? >> No. Oh my goodness. Yeah. Oh, you guys are in for such a treat. >> [laughter] >> Okay. Uh so uh little background for you. So uh City of North Liberty, like um most every community around here, uh adopts standardized model versions of the building code and fire code, right? Um and they come out with new versions every 3 years. 2015, 2018. Uh we're in the process of uh of updating our our building and fire codes. And uh I noticed that our fire code has uh in it a reference to uh storage of flammable materials. Uh and and uh and the default version of the International Fire Code says you can't have flammable materials stored outside of of this kind of variety within so many feet of of another building of this of this variety. That's the default version. Uh for some time we have had a version of the fire code that says you can only have those those those storage of flammable materials uh in the I1 and I2 dist zoning districts. And so because we are invoking the zoning code, even though it's in the fire code, you guys need to sign off on that. Uh if if we're having any sort of reuse regulation by zoning district, even though it's for the fire code, uh so we're coming here to I'm I'm trying to just get your imprimatur your your sign off on on the the changes to our zoning code or or the the fire code. So um the amendment that we have is to because we have a lot of potential infill. Um uh have allowing of fire allowing storage of flammable material. And I thought I might have had the fire marshal here to talk about it, but I don't. Um in say a residential district that's nowhere near another building, but that might prevent future development to from that would be residential from coming in. So we don't want to have um existing storage of flammable material outs you know, that that technically satisfies the fire code stymie infill. Uh it's it would it's not a problem for for where we already have um um industrial zoning where the buildings are far enough apart by code and and zoning regulations anyway. So um just because this particular code amendment um accounts for the the restriction in the use of property based on the district, then we're seeking approval from your from you guys uh in advance of uh the formal approval of the ordinance by the council. And so um I'm I'm sorry. I thought we had a version of it to to show. Um I don't have it in front of me. And so I didn't know I was going to have a presentation for you here. Surprising all kinds of people today. I know that. Uh do you have the one that you that you sent back to me? Are you able to share it with Yeah, I mean it's it's basically references uh reference to the I1 and I2 zoning classification. So these are So basically what we do in in in whole is adopt the the the um the fire code. And then by we create an ordinance which allows us to create exceptions to that fire code. All right. There are references to uh the I1 I2 district. Um and and after Grant and I talked, just because there was a reference to zoning, felt that this commission should should have an opinion on that. Um so what we're doing is just asking um the commission to recommend uh approval of those exceptions. And then we really just highlighted what the exceptions were. Um we didn't provide the whole um exceptions. There's several of them. >> Was it in our packet at all, though? I I couldn't find any text. It wasn't. And I Oh. I'm That's what I'm concerned about. I don't see it in the packet. I don't have it in front of you. I only that at like 5:00 tonight when I was >> Okay. printing cuz I saw it in the agenda, but I looked at the packet before I looked at the agenda. >> Yeah, so without it in your packet, folks, I think we probably just need to table it. I don't think I have anything that I can >> about that. Um That was the reason for the quizzical looks. >> Yeah. Uh yeah, so I I don't I didn't see it in my packet here and I thought it might >> doing it. It just for some reason didn't Okay. Okay. So >> My apologies. Um psych. Well, thank you for the heads-up for next month. >> a thrilling very exciting agenda item next month. I So, I'm going to ask for a motion to table this, right? That's the That's the appropriate >> even think you need to if it's If it's not in the packet, I don't think it's I don't I don't think you can even consider it. >> Okay. Well, it's in the agenda, so Oh, it's Oh, it's on the agenda. You know, let's then let's do please have a motion to table. Prior to that, may I just request that um I assume this doesn't affect any body that's operating right now. It by Or if it is that there's some sort of This is going to legitimize what we've been doing for maybe 15 years. >> All right. I don't think anyone has thought to ask the Planning and Zoning Commission before. >> Understood. Okay. So I'll motion to table item number seven, the 2024 International Fire Code Ordinance uh discussion and presentations. I'll second. Thank you. Can we voice vote this or do we need to call it? >> Yes. Oh, god. >> All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Tabled. Perfect. Okay. Approval of the previous minutes, agenda item eight. Do I hear a motion to approve? I motion to approve the last meeting's minutes. Can I get a second? I'll second. All in favor? Aye. >> Aye. Any opposed? Okay, great. Who was that second? You know what? I'm sorry. I wasn't even looking. I was just I was waiting for the as soon as I heard it. Yep. Good. >> Moving on to planning updates in addition to uh zoning for or excuse me, fire code ordinance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I add that one to the list. Uh we just have uh uh one site plan. Um this was supposed to be on the agenda uh this evening. We talked about it last month, but um we just had a few kind of details to work out. Uh Cherry Street condo is is is going to be something that's just looks exactly nothing new. It's It's just east of the uh the community center, but it's just uh one lot that they're going to divide into two, so that's pretty straightforward. And then um um Michelson III is uh preliminary plat, which is um We've seen the rezoning on it, but this will actually kind of lay out the subdivision kind of we've seen it in concept form, but um so that'll come forward for formal consideration next month. Okay, great. All right. Number nine accomplished. Do I hear a motion to adjourn? >> [snorts] >> I move to adjourn the meeting. Motion Do I hear a second? I'll second. All in favor? Do I even Do we vote on this or do I just adjourn? >> Yeah. Thank you. >> All right. Meeting adjourned. Well, you know No. Oh, you do vote. Okay. Yes. Yes. All right. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay, we're adjourned. We're